“Do you always check a ditch when you walk passed one?”  	“Check for what?”  	“Are you afraid of bodies of water in general?”  	“Hmm.. don’t think so”  	“Do you have a partner?”  	“In one way or another” 	“What is that supposed to m- ”  	“Well, there is somebody I love a lot and talk to every day but I wouldn’t call my partner”  	“Alright”  	“Do you have a child?”  	“No”  The questions of this morning just as easily proceeded during the talk of this afternoon.  	“We still need your report, will you email it shortly?”  	“Oh really? It feels so strange to capture it like that, can’t I make a gifverse or have a talk with you instead? I have a lot of pictures t- ”  	“Don’t make it too hard for yourself, just write the thing, we don’t need to see a hundred pictures”  	“Ok, alright then”  	“Oh, and could you also send the assessment from them?”  	“Ehm, oh I didn’t know you needed that”  	“Yeah, we just need like a page and a grade”  	“Oh, a grade! But -”  	“Just send us the page and we’ll grade it instead” 
That’s why I asked to at least write the page collectively. I refused to be ‘assessed’ by one person. If I never was with one, how can one write it.
	“I thought for the second reader it could also just instead of one per- ”
	“Oh no, it has to be a person and that person needs to have a PhD.”
	 I think I really broke my foot. I heard you can break it gradually, instead of having one instant in which the bone breaks. This is often caused by exhaustion. No wonder my left foot has decided to no longer carry me through these sad streets. This day has had a lot of interesting walking techniques already. From sliding, to hopping, to taking the elevator, walking on the toes, walking on the heels, to making circles instead of straight lines. 
	“What happened to your left foot?”
	“I started sleepwalking again. A practice from back in the days.”
	“Do you have a hard time falling asleep at night?”
	“No, but I do wake up from the nightly visitors nibbling on my toes. I guess that’s why my left foot stopped being able to hold my weight pressed on by the forces of the world. My left foot is the one closest to the window, you see.”
	“Do you often experience reality in a strange way? Like you feel as if your senses alter things, or you hear or see things other people don’t.”
Oh the answer to that question she liked. Whenever she likes the question I hear the sounds of her keyboard. As soon as I hear the first fingertip on the key, I quickly alter my answer. Nooo, I don’t want her to capture me this way! What if we had this talk 1 hour earlier and I would’ve felt completely different, the sun rays had entered the room on my knees instead of the table. I see the clearest when I hold my fingers on the sides of my head and push the skin backwards. It is tricky to bike like that. I don’t like ghosts expressed in too human vocabularies. I’m listening to a song called The Visit. It was out of the ordinary, but obvious in the nameless place. We were met in the visit. 
	“Do you ever feel the smile on your face as a form of a self-inflicted wound?”
	“Hm, well maybe after some weird social event. Like the time I met the family I had never met before but they wrote me letters for ten years. When I arrived they had a little sign saying ‘Welcome [my name] to our home!’ After all the presents and hospitality I felt my smile burning in my cheeks the whole ride home.” 
	“Do you sometimes feel as if time moves in a way that is out of joint? Like a film in slow motion or fast forward.”
	“Oh yes very often, don’t y- ”
Again, the typing sounds. A ball being kicked around outside. Clothes parading on the laundry rack. 
	“I am meeting someone at 10 ‘o'clock.”
	“Who are you meeting? What’s the name?”
	“Oh I’m not sure, I was already glad I made it here, with the ferry and the bike and the broken foot you know.”
	“You should really come more prepared next time.”