Since I still can’t walk on my left foot, I started applying some balsam on it which makes it go from hot to cold, cold to hot. The first night I used it, I only massaged it onto my left foot, but it was such a peculiar sensation to feel just one foot floating that last night I decided to also massage my right one. This morning my feet were less exhausted, so maybe it helped. It was a strange way to fall asleep, with two feet going from cold to hot, not even in regular rhythms, as if I was drifting away but also a bit like a feetly lullaby. The hot and cold made me at some point not feel my feet at all anymore while my head was a bowling ball beating down the pillow. Feet and rooms haunted by the spectres of any kind of archive - words, colours, stories, images, lullabies, footsteps, filenames, a shared text, buttons fallen from a favorite coat - traces that still float in the air like pollen. This idea cranks up the feeling of a sneeze. I’m allergic to both dust and pollen. Both these allergies I didn’t have until an older age. The dust one I think I just created myself. I would hardly clean the room in the attic where I used to sleep as a child. Whenever someone would moved my stuff around I would completely freak out. I couldn’t find anything anymore, all my gatherings of things weren’t there anymore. Instead there were stacks out of things that didn’t even want to be together,  so weeks flew by where all my sense of gathering was lost and dust kept flying around. Dust flying around, most of dust is skin anyways, responding to all different rhythms around. The little box with all the extra buttons that come with a new garment, waiting for a button to be lost so a new one can come along and hold two pieces of fabric together. After my grandmother died we found out that she used the biggest part of her closet to gather up all those buttons. Neatly placed next to each other, all different ones, on two shelves - nothing but buttons and dust that made itself visible once a button got picked up. There are customs after people pass away of stopping all the clocks in the house and covering mirrors, windows and closets with sheets until after the funeral. It is to keep the spirit of the deceased from getting trapped into this life and make it able for them to smoothly cross over to the other. If the soul of the departed sees its reflection, it can get stuck and not be able to move anymore; with the possibility of haunting those who remain in this life. Stopping the clocks keeps the spirits from worrying about time, and to begin a new period of existence without. Making the dead person leave their home feet first prevents them from looking back as they’re passing the door. Leaving feet first, bit like my feet stopping with walking and shifting from hot to cold making me float in bed. It would be nice to stop all the clocks in my home. It reminds me of that one time a person I met seven years ago in Paris, and back then got on my nerves, asked if he could stay at my place for one night. I thought, why not, maybe he turned out nice in those seven years. They say in seven years time all your cells are renewed anyways, so my expectations were not even that unlikely. He got here, oh and I first have to tell you that he works as a data analyst at some sort of big chemical factory and he has to predict when parts of machines will break down so they can in time be replaced. From the moment he stepped into my apartment he fell into one big pool of stress. He saw that everything in my house is a bit ‘broken’, I would say instead, wobbly, or funny, or stubborn, or working in a less typical sense of what productivity is. He immediately started analysing every thing and fixing them. He noticed that all the clocks were on a different time and started synchronizing them. The one near my bed does for every minute forward three minutes backwards for example, but no, he thought it should do one minute as the sixty seconds which he believes to a minute. At some moment I yelled: “Stop! Everything works beautifully. I don’t need aligned tickings of time, I love my slow bedside clock, ticking backwards as the room walks by.” Stopping clocks one at a time, covering all cabinets one step at a walk. The sheets slowly accumulating all the dust in the room, to make sure that the particles and spectres don’t crawl into the cupboards and instead can keep moving. I started sleep walking again, I started sleeping with the big soft living room for the first time, practices of sleep haunting my days. Dust is ineffable, making me want to jump into all its particles and discover whatever is speaking. Every gesture a question, to which the adventure responds according to its bent. Reunions like gatherings with all that disappeared for a little or long while. Constant correspondences that only want to express processes of growth and causation - how to write with these horrible languages in a way that doesn’t repeat these trajectories? “The appeal to agency, in other words, is a corollary of the logic of embodiment, of turning things in on themselves. To undo this logic is, once and for all, to exorcise the spectre of embodied agency and bring things back into animate life. As a bundle of potentials in an ever-unfolding field of forces and energies, the body moves and is moved not because it is driven by some internal agency, wrapped up in the package, but because as fact as it is gathering or winding itself up, it is forever unravelling or unwinding, alternately breathing in and out” (Ingold, 2013, 95). Makes me wanna beat out a rug, run through whatever it leaves behind, and sneeze as hard as I can. 
