The turning point picture you posted reminds me of this cup I bought in a thrift store. Do you remember when we went to there? The same place where I got that lovely orange/red garment, a good velvet lure for creatures. For me the equivalent for “Heyyy! How is it being back?” is "Ohhh, until when are you going to stay here?" I hate this feeling that I have to leave at some point especially because it's a kind of enunciation that just accelerates the process of intensifying anxiety. I have to say it's tricky not to fall into the supposed wonders of acceleration and velocity with the clock pointing at two minutes before midnight. In that sense, I feel that the end of this world already happened, it's just sending its virtual affects back into this time that will eventually be actualized. I know this goes against all kinds of things we are supposed to support but sometimes it's difficult not to enter into this mood or tonality. I think for me to live any place there should be a time of compressing and decompressing that takes months, something made impossible by the actual neoliberal regime of distribution of bodies - well, I have to say it’s hard to undo the tendency to believe in incessant work, being proud of it. Some years ago I was reading Wilhelm Reich, who is very interesting and had this motto about working and loving, but unfortunately when people talk about work it is always that one approach, in chronological time, not a time that needs some time itself to rest a bit. I guess fabulation and the powers of the false are the creation of time itself. So maybe, well I'm not that certain, every minor gesture is fabulatory or contains fabulation but for me, yes, and I think it has always been so. Some kind of experiential glue is needed in cases of waking up as one person and leaving the bed as another, which is not so well accepted by the judgemental society that likes to chunk people into a unity to be judged and evaluated. But what if this constellation is not the same as one minute ago? I mean, literally. It’s hard to understand that. I remember when I was younger I use to leave notes to the other versions/ghosts of myself, or I should say, a-self, or (a)self, hmmm. The cup that reminds me of the image of the turning point was just tested in the microwave, to make an infusion of dandelion roots, not the best kind of tea and technically not even tea, but they say it's good for kidney stones, which apparently are not very active in my organism right now but I feel they can appear in the future again. It's happening again. 
