I think I'm going to buy some packs of Cinnamon Altoids from Amazon. It comes in a can just like the tuna/salmon for cats. I think I started sleep walking again. Every morning I wake up with my feet hurt and full of blisters. Sleepwalking is a bit like those pictures taken in 1989, don’t you think? I don’t meet the variation of you in the evening so much anymore, because that’s when I’m already asleep being in a different timezone. But now I started wondering if I even really sleep, or just spend the night walking the corridors. Sometimes you hear someone say “She died of old age” and then I wonder “But how does that happen?” to which they reply “The organs were just exhausted” but then I think “If that’s dying then I’m already doing it”. Some might say that the only way we know death is as an opposition to life, but since events are never composed like that, what do we even know. Often you kill me with your beautiful words. I guess there's a sort of connection. I've been waking up with a lot of scratches on my back. Definitely it's not something that my body could do by itself. And I've not been sleeping with anybody. But they really look like scratches, and I also can't remember hurting myself accidentally. I would love to be visited by a creaturesque entity that scratches me. Don't take me wrong, I understand your fear of human entities visiting during the night, but I think the kind of visits I would love to receive is the non-human type, like the stories from my childhood I've been describing in Lure of the Ghost. But how to summon them through a non-anthropotechnical bias? By the way, can you believe I'm writing this while on the other tab of my browser I'm watching live television, more specifically a telenovela. I think, beside cats, dogs, and some relatives, telenovelas would be one of the things I would miss more, hahaha, nothing that I cannot resolve with my VPN and the right streaming websites. Well, but you love The X-files and there are a lot of humanized aliens there. Well, that's true, but there are many humans that have more-than human tendencies in that tv show, including Mulder and Scully. It's funny that they also talk about The X-Files in I'm Very Into You. I'm not trying to create a parallel with their work but for me it's impossible to not bring anarchival traces from that tv-show since I restarted watching it fully from the beginning while following the last season that ended some months ago, and which almost everybody hates but I have to confess I love. PS: I still didn't find a place to install the patch "I believe" with the flying saucer, but I'm looking for a new iron (since you took yours back when you left), and a special t-shirt to place it. 
