Something is happening again. I was told that when you go into an MRI scan, you go into such a big magnetic force that your balance organ is affected by it. While you’re sliding into the machine, it feels like you’re turning to the right, but ‘actually’ you’re just sliding straight into it. “Actually?” I said. “Yeah you’re confused of what actually happens.” But then I thought; if you feel you turned right, then it still ‘happened’. I really don’t understand when there’s a difference made between those things! It happened, again, and at the same time, always, and again again. For me everything I think, dream, feel, remember is just as much part of what happened. And honestly, often I can’t even discern between those things. That’s why I really don’t trust someone when they can just get out of bed and wake up like hop hop hop. No, I need to tend to the shift first. So much happened. So much happened again.  I went to a talk of Laurie Anderson, while she was talking and showing and making I wrote down some words in the dark: ‘Reality not as something to recognize anymore. What are nights for? To fall through time into another world? Still living in a world of stories, soon you’re not telling the stories; we’re drowning in our own stories. Something I can’t read. Gravity’s random, but could also be gravity’s raindown. When he appears late in the story it is only because he simply wasn’t written yet. All the things I lost in the flood. For everything you don’t know; true or false. If ponies were people, they’d all be in jail.’ 
Both our bodies are expelling themselves. I’m so nervous for tomorrow morning, I know you’ll be here, but still you’ll be sleeping, so I think I’ll feel like going in circles again and again and again. Waiting all those long few minutes for an extra stripe to appear or never appear. I heard that after four minutes and the stripe(s) appeared you shouldn’t look at them anymore, because a second stripe could appear without having to mean anything. The first stripe could also disappear out of nowhere. It’s not that I don’t want something travelling with me; something that escaped the event of us meeting and travelled across the ocean, but it just doesn’t seem like it did. And it is so strange, something going on ‘inside’, while I don’t even think I believe in an inside in that way. But still, having no idea of what is going on over there. We can only guess. Those two stripes... I’m sure I want to check them and see them again and again, flipping my eyes between the clock and the stripes. I can only look at them for four minutes, then they won’t ‘mean’ anything anymore. What if the stripes turn into the arms of the clocks? I’ll see the two arms making circles, my eyes trying to register the stripe, the stripe coming as one but maybe soon as double.
