 childhood. I always expected the ghosts to visit me even not believing in any kind of Western or Eastern formalized religion. But also - and it's something I wrote in the introduction for the book I’m finishing to write and I'll send to you to review - my early childhood coincided with the release of the first seasons of The X-Files broadcasted on television. If I remember well it was released in Brazilian free television almost at the same time it aired in the US, which was uncommon. Cable TV was still not very popular there. But anyways, when I started to watch The X-Files as a little child I became fascinated with the idea of the abduction by external forces that were either extraterrestrial or cryptozoological - well, yes, there were some episodes that tended to more spiritualized cases but they were not my preferred ones.Every night I wished to be abducted by one of those creatures and be tested, examined, etc. But when I realized that some creatures or ghosts could be very human I understood that I wouldn't like those so much. Well, I guess there all kinds of specks of ghosts and extraterrestrial beings. Including the ghosts of the trauma and repulse to neurodiversity that inhabit São Paulo. I guess that's why the only way I go back to Brazil is for visiting parents and cats. Also it makes me feel really sad that conspiracy theory right now is so oriented to the right-wing, my whole infancy was built with fabulation with The X-Files, Twin Peaks and other TV shows with all sorts of conspiracy theories and that's what made me survive, believing and creating, fabulating a world in order to survive the burden of living with people. Even that they stole from us, remember Dr. Amp in Twin Peaks: The Return? I guess I'll continue to my fabulation even if that means being judged by the alleged “politically activist” people that still don't accept any other kind of contract or agreement that doesn't pass through the discursive neurotypical bias. People think they're ontologically superior to animals, yes, and they still believe that they really overcame transcendentalism with their secular faith: for me any kind of ontological division is a kind of secular-masked old system of belief or faith. But I have to confess sometimes I have so much disdain for the humans that I may put them on a lower level than the other creatures, including animals and plants. Well, I guess everybody has its contradictory tendencies (fortunately).I found this tiny piece of and old CD-ROM near the laundromat. Interesting anarchival/(an)archeological piece of media no? Wtf, media is way more than that, as Andrew Murphie would say <3 OMG it was so pleasant when I started to rewatch Riget some weeks ago. I guess they washed away so much the typicality that the uncanny spectres decided to stay around waiting for the portal to be open (red room?). But actually I don't think they decide things through a consensus-based model of governance but only appetites (many-in-one and one-in-many always generates some kind of detouresque action.) Anyways, I think I'm too tired to compose more complex sentences today. I just came home from the Späz, I felt relieved and for sure better while I was there, but now that I'm at home again I feel that…. well, I don't know, feeling that the un-containability of the event of play with the things doesn't answer to a chronologic and limited time but I wish I could feel more right now what I had felt earlier. I can't stop laughing when I think of what the peoply people from the other lab said about the leakage of the spaze's creaturesque environment. "The other lab complained about it not being attractive". I can't stop thinking how it is to be like a chair or even that horrible piece of furniture that was taken outside to be devoured by recycling. And even how those pieces of furniture would look at the typicality that exhalates from those individuals: "Oh, really? You're REALLY not attractive". Well, that's what I think of those people, and I'm a really sexual/sensuous creature. Actually I would prefer to be a creature than a thing to speak like that, that's one of the reasons, with no disrespect to Bruno Latour, we've been using the Parliament of Creatures or the Creatureteque to talk about the non-human or more-than-human appetites that emerge and need to be talked out, obviously not through a presentational mode of putting ourselves into appearance. I can't stop imagining the peoply people saying: "WTF those guys have a can of Altoids attached to the entrance door with magnets and a label made in one of those old mechanical labelers glued to it. That's so tacky". At the same time I got so sad because this is just another confirmation that there's not so much space in the world that accepts diverse modes of dealing with art materials which are not focused on the really tacky art market, or in the academia without having to deal with human-oriented constraints, which is eating out each pore of my body because I figured I don't have much time to find escape places. But well, for now, during this night I just want to continue with the laugh because the ghosts from the future's arrival are always certain. Also it's sooo boring to think that for them the art starts inside of the lab; that they cannot deal with any other organization of things like a  unusual arrangement outside it that could affect/reflect in its "precious" interiority (and I mean the entrance passage of their door)...  Well, I guess that's the difference of art from artfulness. They don't really know what artfulness is because it's a technique to survive the typicality and the thresholds of this iteration of the universe. By the way, I took a picture of the space leaking itself into the outside of the room because my guts somehow knew that something like that was going to happen, but it's on my new Olympus LT-1, which I haven’t developed a film from yet. I hope it will work because I didn't take a backup picture with my iPhone, normally I would, but yes, let's wait. People are waiting and people are (always) missing. I guess I'm really sad these days and in a progression with all this uncertainty, one sign of that is that I have this film for like, two weeks, and only took 12 pictures. Normally a sneaky cat would develop even two films per week (during the Snappy times). Well, I hope this will change somehow. It's a kind of affectometer no? The quantity of film developed is somehow proportional with the qualitative aspects of my mood, or the mood of the ghosts that populate this body (yesterday I woke up with a really good mood but I knew that when I put my feet outside it would instantly vanish. And voila).PS: i'm listening to some Nine Inch Nails while I'm browsing youtube channels of people who collect pieces of lottery. Hmm it's not really lottery, but those in which there's a paper and numbers covered with a metal-membrane-like material, you pass a coin over them (I love coins from Denmark with holes) and then you discover if you have some money to receive.  XXI’m getting sadder everyday. There’s something in this city, something like it doesn’t permit a body to be unstable. I’m having a hard time trying to put in words how I’ve been feeling. Something like: always a leaky sense of self, but because a body can’t be unstable, the leakyness turns into a leaking that keeps on leaking and flips over in a drifting-away. I feel myself slowly drifting away and getting more and more unstable but as instability is impermited all a body can do is watch it being taken away from a body, all its drops, all its last energies. This whole process gives a lot of anxiety. It is not even that I mind being sad, I think I’m always a little bit sad, but this drifting and drifting is what scares me. So many people ask me: “Heyyy! How is it being back? How are you? You want to hang out soon?” All I answer is: “It’s awful, but yes sure.” Like my psychologist wanting me to fill in this questionnaire. “Do you feel sad often? Never - rarely - sometimes - a lot - always.” While I was answering it I just imagined you not even reading the questions and ticking ‘always’ everywhere. Yesterday I was in the train and I got so anxious from all the loud voices and conversations; it felt as if the words were penetrating my body. I decided to put in my earplugs and left them in as I walked out of the train into the station. I was so happy to have discovered this new technique, I felt a lot calmer walking with all the bodies around. The earplugs  were not like those regular ones you get for free in hotels, but a bit more expensive ones that you can use for concerts. Somebody walked up to me and asked if I wanted to take part in a questionnaire. I nodded no, thinking of that if I have to answer always everywhere again I will collapse. I saw he looked at my ears with the strange blue things coming out of them and said: “Oh, I’m so incredibly sorry, I didn’t see.” One of the few words I love being with are yours, as I’m copyediting The Lure of the Ghost I feel them floating around me for the rest of the day. The other(ness) voices finally found their way into this research-creation proposition and its other branches, but it's still important to be clear that when an "I" appears, it doesn't refer to a unified subject but as the actual occasion of the writing itself, that carries anarchival traces of all the spectres that inhabit and world this body-mind, a conceptual persona in its multiplicity and monstrosity. Sometimes during the following pieces, the murmurs of the ghosts appear as "I", they or (a) body. Again and again, drifting away b