 now, what makes me stuck and non-nomadic, if that's the right thing to say. Well, there's no right thing to say, but I would love to move with the bike being able to move my ghosts, what is difficult in this situation of displacement. “It's happening again”. Poor Dougie, I remember how much he travelled. By the way, I just developed the last film of the Snappy period. Of course I will use the camera again, but I want to try my new weird Olympus LT-1. I love the first picture of the roll where there’s always missing something (but also adding something). This is the room they rented for me when I was in Aarhus. The kid that lives there is called Alice, well, I think so… her name was on the door, some Lego-like letters attached to the it, forming the name A-L-I-C-E, but then I accidentally broke the letter I. Now it's just A-L-C-E. It would be nice if they adopted this new name for her. It's “reindeer” in Portuguese!Funny logo printed on the faux-leather that covers the lens of my new camera (and make it look like a small wallet). I looked into Wikipedia on “PaineWebber” and apparently it “was an American stock brokerage and asset management firm that was acquired by the Swiss bank UBS AG in 2000. The company was founded in 1880 in Boston, Massachusetts, by William Alfred Paine and Wallace G. Webber”. Since this camera model was released in 1994 it may have been used by an employee of that financial company in its last days of decadence. What was it used for? I'm not sure, but it's very special because it allowed people to be very sneaky since it really doesn't look like a camera when it's closed, and although being so small, it still carries almost the same quality as the now a cult-following object Olympus Mju 2. I wouldn't say it could be used for espionage because at that time they already had a lot of better technical devices for that. I have to say it's not invisible but it's so visible as other thing, that it could be used for that. “The owls are not what they seem”, like this leather object is not what it seems. I'm writing this while I'm sitting in a sofa in the Spaze, with my boots on. That can’t be a good sign, I'm so sad that it feels that it doesn't matter for my body to be less or more comfortable, since the most probable outcome of future ghosts of displacement is the death, or the complete deterritorialization of the body. Normally I like to put my bare feet on the ground, even with all my fingers cut because of anxiety and sadness. I wish I could find a way far from self-mutilation but also I think lethargy could rise to such a high level that even for that I won’t have the energy. Speaking of, I was so attracted by the Rick and Morty pair of socks in Urban Outfitters, but at the same time felt strange buying something with such clear human faces. Then we had that conversation stating that they're not necessarily human but more-than human, in the sense that there are infinite universes of Ricks and Mortys so in most of those universes they could have non-human traits, even looking like human, or even in the human-like creatures there's more-than human. So I started to feel a bit happy again, resonating with this moment right now I feel a bit of happiness in the midst of all this future displacement ghost that populates the instances of this body with sadness. I guess I will take off my boots a little bit to let my feet breathe. Also, it just came into my mind: you still haven't bought the I'm very into You book/exchange of emails by McKenzie Wark and Kathy Acker. That's so funny, but that’s also why this looks so anarchival :) Only qualities and tendencies.It’s good you keep on writing even when I don’t. I keep telling myself I’m too sad to write and I have so much to tell you that I have to find the right moment. But the things is; I never find the right moment to write and only keep getting sadder. I’m glad you keep the pace, and remind me that we should just keep pacing and trust that anarchival tendencies will bring us back to the writings, so we can write what we wanted to write even when we will never know what we wanted to write. Your pace creates conditions. And that is exactly what we were talking about; a living-with. It is not about codependency (have you also noticed that this has suddenly become fashionable, like me talking with my roommate, noticing she was on the phone “Oh sorry I didn’t know you were calling someone” “Oh no, that’s just my boyfriend, we FaceTime when we’re not together, haha we’re so needy”, and me standing there with my eyes full of despair and my mouth full of disgust), but about survival. It is not about needing each other, it is about making it able to live, about creating conditions. I moved all my stuff back into my apartment. I promised myself this is the last time I move to this city, one year and one year only, my body can’t live here anymore. The more I try to understand why this city makes me so sad, the less I understand. There’s is something wrong about me being here. Probably it has something to do with ghosts. My mother always tells me I’m so sad because I have other people’s ghosts visiting me too, haha. Well, she would never use the world ghost like that, but that’s what she says; “You’re sad about things that are not even your own sadness”. When I was in Montréal I had ghosts visiting me too, but those I could place much easier. Well not always, you remember that day when I just couldn’t stop crying and I didn’t know why? I think that is perfectly fine and even beautiful, but here I don’t feel just sad, I feel stressed and restless and weird. Yesterday I was sitting in between all my boxes filled with stuff and just had to cry. Suddenly it hit me I’ll be in Amsterdam again for a whole year. You tell me you write here because you feel like you have to, but that I shouldn’t feel pressured to do the same. I told the wandering albatross to come see the words moving here again. Yesterday I was so restless and started unpacking, hoping that by moving with the things I would feel a bit of joy. I saw so many thingy-friends I almost had forgotten about. Actually, the only things I was really excited about seeing again were my plants, but they all looked so sad. Brown leaves, dried out, hanging down. The person that was in my room for the time I was in Montréal didn’t take care of them at all. It is because people consider themselves more important, and always just think about themselves in relation to other persons. The only thing he left me was a bottle of wine and a little booklet laying on my nightstand. I opened the booklet, being a curious creature, but also because I didn’t trust him leaving something behind like that. I know him and I knew he would’ve taken everything he cared about. The booklet was completely empty, except that the first page was ripped out and the second page said “Anouk is beautiful x [his name]”. I wish he would’ve expressed his love for me by taking care of my plants like I asked if he wanted to. I saw my brother today and he told me I should just rip out that page as well and use it for my own words. I’m not sure about that, I don’t think any glad words will ever appear there. I have so many booklets with sad ghosts running around the first pages already. I moved around with all my stuff, tried so many techniques the spaz taught me, but my thingies still didn’t look happy. I hope soon they will again. I need at least one place in this city that will give me some rest. I was only happy yesterday when I found some stones I had gathered from Denmark and Canada in a paper bag. There’s something about stones and paper bags. Paper bags around stones, stones on paper bags, paper bags between stones, stones around paper bags. They like to be wrapped. Somehow I link that to the sensitive dishwashers of Riget. Those fabulatory speakers in the cellar know so much more than all the other persons running around on the ground floor and above. They talk about the events presenting themselves again, the building starting to cry, something hiding in the silence, things that come and can’t be washed away with water. One technique that is really important for me and I know it is for you too, is taking a shower after a long day with a lot of typicality. Or taking all my clothes of after being in a train with too many sad people around. It is a way to anarchive the draining events. My grandmother had a lot of neurodiverse tendencies. I think she would’ve enjoyed a place where they were better understood. Or it is not about understanding, and it’s also not about having a place, because my grandfather was always very loving and created conditions, maybe even too much so (in a way that it hurt him), but maybe understanding for herself in a way that is not even verbal. I think she had a lot of tendencies but felt stressed because she felt like she wasn’t supposed to have them. She always took off all her clothes as soon as she came home, but nobody was supposed to know about that. She hardly ever wanted to have visitors coming to her house, but she never knew how to express that. My father only found out a few years ago that one of the reasons was because she always covered all the furniture in sheets and bed covers. It was simply impossible for somebody to visit spontaneously because then she had to take down all those sheets. Ever since I heard about those sheets I haven’t been able to stop thinking about them. Covering up all the cabinets, white fabrics to hide from the world, just as how ghosts have always been represented in pop culture. I guess that the question of the ghosts have been changing a bit for me since my