s itself. It is to have a compulsive, repetitive, and nostalgic desire for the archive, an irrepressible desire to return to the origin, a homesickness, a nostalgia for the return to the most archaic place of absolute commencement. No desire, no passion, no drive, no compulsion, indeed no repetition compulsion, no "mal-de" can arise for a person who is not already, in one way or another, en mal d'archive.*** now playing: Robert Palmer - Addicted to love ***Every day im so excited to write but then when the time comes to write im simply exhausted from all the forces; all the neurotypical tasks and expectations like having a clean body and clean house and being in time and responding to people and emails. The only possible way of response for me is to disappear, but since I still don’t know all the techniques of that practice the closest thing I can think of is to fall asleep. I opened The Lure of the Ghost again and it said “Welcome back!” It’s vrey yrev good to see you again, old friend. It makes me sad; this morning I slept in late and read a nice text in bed with a coffee. I had so much energy and beautiful words floating in my head, but then I had to go to the university. Now, I’m back home and just exhausted. All the words got sucked out of me. My stomach and skin have been so upset this week, first signs to sleep more and drink water to wash away all the typicality perhaps. Blurry words and images caused by your blurry view can be beautiful though, a bit like ghosts. Filenames deliberately misspelled, passed on through the internet as lures. Writing against memory and forgetting at the same time. Editing lure and jumping from page 60 to 82, because the end of the first page and the beginning of the last page looked exactly the same when I squeezed my eyes. Writing before your addition and after your addition from this afternoon at the same time. I miss flirting with you; now I can only flirt with the ghost of you here (hoping the ghost of me there also does some flirting) and with the boring digital words. Sending you one more compilation of a < and a 3 is going to make me cry. < and 3 always implies a less than 3. But it’s always so much more than that! At least the ghosts make up for that, they know a lot about such things. Still, the i love you makes me very glad to say to you, but also makes me just want to sit next to you and say nothing, maybe just cough once. Sitting next to each other and don't talk but still talk may be one of the things I love most. Every day I wake up excited to write and to plan things but mostly that feeling disappears when I get up from the bed. I've been putting so many alarms for the early morning version of me that everyday is a huge and difficult task to find the one that I have to deactivate. And they all look like the same: "find grants", "answer emails", "send emails", "finish the film", "write this", "write that". Blablablabla. I've been looking so long for a way to delete all those alarms, apparently that was possible in early versions of iOS, you just had to send a voice command: "Siri, delete all my alarms" and that was done. But this is not possible anymore. Maybe I'll die suffocated in a sea of alarms that never reached their desired outcomes. I guess this is the strangest place I (tried) to work, after eating the Beyond Meat burger in A&W. I know it has a lot of gluten but I couldn't find forces to move myself beyond that point of Saint-Laurent Boulevard. At least this delicious veggie burger returned. I stayed there, waiting, and waiting. Then finally went to a pool in Montreal. I guess pools are very exquisite time-eaters, they eat time like all the other entities we've been discussing, but differently from the ghosts of the future, that eat both actual and virtual time. Now I feel that my body feels tired but in a nice way, feeling that I spent many hours in a determinate environment. In fact we stayed for like an hour inside the pool, and even didn't do many exercises, mostly jumping. Sometimes the waves of typicality sucked us into doing the "from one side of the pool to another" swimming activity as everybody was practicing. Still. It's 10PM but I feel that it is already 4AM. Don't understand this kind of time sucker that gives the sensorial impression of having all the time sucked but still having time until the body wants some sleeping. There's something that attracts me to the tower you posted. And you already know that because I took many pictures of that exquisite building. But I've been searching a lot today and I still didn't find so much information about it. It looks like a water tower, apparently not being used anymore, and I've seen it in many pictures around the city. Only thing I know for now is that it brings calmness, like a place I could run to if the world started to fall apart more than it's already falling. Or a good place to film. But it seems, or it feels like a portal, you enter there and you wake up in another place. I'm not sure whether in another dimension or just with a new perspective, belonging to another species of animal or plant after crossing that threshold. I want to be there, and I want to believe. Here's an iteration of the same tower in a procedural environment created with a-frame and javascript. It's so funny how it fits so well in this mountain-snowing dark environment. Maybe it belongs to it as well. It also reminds me of something that could come from the Batman The Dark Knight films hahaha.Hey, I NEED this: https://www.amazon.com/K-punk-Collected-Writings-Mark-Fisher/dp/191224828XDo you like SIA? Imagine what would have happened to all these words if they hadn’t find there ways into vrey. If vrey never happened! Well, I guess it is only just happening again. A sweet person from my class gave me some Greek cream that will make my feet cold. She brought it from Greece because she had the same with her right hand as what I have been experiencing with my left foot now for two weeks. Can’t be a coincidence, my left foot, her right hand, diagonalizing until we’ll find the edge of the event. I woke up at 6am today, and lay awake until 8am because I couldn’t stop thinking of the dream in which all my pores started to clog again. Those thoughts for some reason moved over in the visits from hundreds of ghosts from the future, asking what I’m going to do next year, next day, next minute, next second. To calm down I read what you wrote here while I was asleep, rocking me back asleep again. Only to wake up again at noon realizing I had missed all my alarms that were screaming “what will you do next second”, “what will you do next minute”, “what will you do next hour”. Rhythm not as a temporal structure, but a continuous assemblage of intensities. Hey, look at this Fred Moten's quote. I was reading four books at the same time last evening (and translating one), but I guess my multifunctional capacity is still working (because I don't truly believe that any of the activities I do are separated from one from another. So going to Kazu, or buying a black tea with lemonade at Starbucks is part of the research, as watching The X-Files or any film, choosing a new soap to test in the laundromat machines, etc. Everything is not connected, but I think that's artfulness, admitting that the affects those activities bring ultimately resonate in each of my works, text, video, etc, and living and creating are not separable things, which seems pretty much obvious but apparently not for everybody). Anyways, here’s the quote (2018, p. 229, modified): What if the assignment lends itself, rather, to a set of sociopsychic affects that are incompatible with the intellectual practice? The completion of the assignment only ever prepares you for the next assignment, which requires one to consider the purpose of the neverending proliferation of assignments. The logic of the assignment is a logic of calculation. It makes it possible to construct a mode of quantification that imposes value upon human endeavor. (...) Another way to put it is: grading degrades intellectual practice and that we must consider, again immediately, is what the relation is between the degradation of intellectual practice and the maintenance of the already existing order of things. What I am trying to do, as emphatically and absolutely as I can is refuse the administrative function. I just thought it would be nice to put this here because I remembered the assignment you needed and we tried to transduce the strange words into typical normative text from university's humans. Anyway, the university may be doomed and changes are needed, but I'm still looking for grants. I'm restless, the ghosts of the future are closer than ever. I think my dream would be to do a second PhD right now. Most people would think that's crazy but I guess that the activity of writing a thesis (obviously I would look for something like a creative research but anyways…) is plausible with the multiplicity of characters that can be created using the multimodality of media platforms that make possible to release of all kinds of ghosts. A more typical ghost would write a thesis for 2 hours a day, and then all the other hours would be free to populate multiverses doing their orgies, films, pictures, coding, etc. Obviously those worlds are not separated. And it would still be a thesis that would be evaluated according reaching acceptable parameters in the typical system of the university. It's a technique to create time. I understand other people have difficulties writing thesis and things like that, but on the other side, when I think about a regular job in the “physical” world 