I'm vrey into you  Vrey?Yes vrey, I’m vrey into you. x“It's vrey vrey nice to see you again, my old friend”Did you see me typing?Should images be added? Yes I think it’s very important to have images be part of this.Why very? Or not vrey?You don't like vrey anymore?Oh, out of habit. But apart from that I think just because vrey exists (and you know how much I love it), doesn’t mean very can’t be used anymore. Very is a different mode than vrey.Also, it’s so nice not to know where something is taking, or should take. There are not so many places where a content does not have to be speculated before starting. Starting should start in the middle. Oh yes, that's true, and I just realized a strange thing, I couldn’t find references for Mister C saying vrey, but then i put the scene description on google search and found a lot of reddit posts talking about it, but as YREV. Maybe VREY was invented, or manufactured, out of novelty, maybe he never said vrey but only yrev, that's ‘very’ as it's pronounced in the red room language reversal arrangement. Ohh ! That’s such a nice realisation. I was already thinking “how did the r just jump like that”. But now that I know about YREV… ! Makes me want to record you saying very (if I ever catch you though… you very often say vrey lately) and try to play it in every different way...  very, vrey, yrev, yrev. 4 letters makes (4!), 4x3x2x1 combinations possible, no? I love reversal speaking for recordings, to say vrey I would have to say yerv and then revert it with the audio editing tool. Yerv is a nice word, no? We can record it on the bathtub, no?Oh yes I love reversal speaking bathtub recordings. I’ll add some bathtub pictures too. I’m pretty sure we share a love for bathtubs. I looked into all possible combinations of V-R-E-Y: VREYRVEYEVRYVERYREVYERVYYRVERYVEVYREYVRERVYEVRYEVEYREVYRYVERVYEREYVRYEVRYERVEYRVRYEVYREVERYVREYVgood thing v-r-e-y has 4 different letters, because otherwise there would be less combinations ! if vrey had five letters it would be 5x4x3x2x1if we made a word out of the whole alphabet it would be 1x2x3x4x5x6x7x8x9x10x11x12x13x14x15x16x17x18x19x20x21x22x23x24but if we could reuse letters it would be 4^4Oh yes, I was wondering, some of them even look like names, like YVER. I could imagine giving this name to a child. And it's also a gender neutral name. Well, all names could be like that no? Or they already are. Beautiful name. I pronounce it like ‘hiver’. I feel very spread out now that you are in Copenhagen. I couldn’t sleep for the past two nights, I woke up so early, which is vrey unlike me. I think it is because I’m still synched to your sleep and I sensed that you already woke up being ahead 6 hours. There are infinites of you and some are here with me and some of mine are there with you. That’s perhaps what makes me feel so spread out as I’m accompanied by future spectres. Makes me think of how I met a spectre of you before I met you. Often meeting is more recognizing than meeting, don’t you think? Something is here again. We feel a lot the same. Actually that was the feeling I had when I met you. Not a meeting, but a recognising. I felt relieved, because I knew as soon as I met you I didn’t have to explain myself or clarify my presence. I knew that there was a mutuality, an understanding, which reassured me that bodies can be at places or in company without having to actively relate in the exhaustive sense -which is often in neurotypical settings a verbal mode. The relation was already established in the recognition rather than an explanation.Yes, I feel the same; a variation of the same - it's a nice feeling when I meet somebody and I don't need to jump into answering typical and functional questions like: “what do you do?”, “why are you living here?", or even “what are your plans?”. That one is the worst for me. It's so pleasant when I find somebody that I already know, or at least I know that I don't need to put things into words with my mouth because communication is already happening on other levels and strata. Language hurts a lot and flirting with language is a feeling that I don't know if I can still do. Since those things are said in different ways, and traditional objective consent is very typical and already a big restraint for the future of a relation (between bodies or anything). Really anything, like when people enter the room full of thingies and just put the chair back where it “should be”. Does the chair want to be there again doing its repetitive “task” and helping those really boring asses that need to work? Not sure if I am anthropomorphizing things too much but at least it's the way I get to understand what is wanted (or what can be lured without having to express a single word). I was reading Nature as Event - The Lure of the Possible, oh I really want to finish reading it before I’m going to put it in your mailbox this Monday together with the herbs and the hvmans stamp card. But anyways, Didier Debaise was, following Whitehead, talking about the subjectivity of feelings relating to subjectum and superjacio, which offer a renewed thinking of the subject which is not just anthropological (57, 2017). The first translates to being placed below, or being thrown under something; the second to throw above, to hurl toward. Within subjectum the appearance of a foundation of feeling is never the aim, but rather the effect of a process. A thought or a feeling is then not tied to subject, but by walking along the lines of the process, a subject can be added, as a derivative. Well ok, I was saying all this because this can be written for all multiple centers of experience within nature for “the various parts of its body”. It comes from Whitehead’s Modes of Thought. Those multiple centers of experiences are still linked to one centre of experience, as entangled multiplicities (56, 2018). I kept on thinking how this multiple center goes across, rather than linking to one centre which can be traced. Anyways I think I need to keep reading because I’m not explaining those thoughts and my thoughts now. Maybe you can read the last pages? Also I don’t know, I think I was merely thinking on how this could be connected to spectropoetic contingencies. What about an orgy of entangled multiplicities? I think I would prefer the octopodal mode of thinking through different tentacles that have their own desires, the lures that activate them... But I don't really think that cats cannot do that, or humans - or more-than humans (specially). The event knows itself to the order of what the event wants, and I think a good and non-translatable encounter like ours happens when the creatures that compose the event-eventing are involved in some tendencies that can have different modulations but still can in a way interact and input contagiousness generating a kind of movement that is a bit not-coordinated but that carries a strange beauty. I talk about all the versions of me that exceed my body talking to all the versions of you (well, maybe not all of them, I'm sure some versions of me may not like that, but they are infinite...or at least I think they tend to infinity.) And they have this thing that is like a council, but not through consent or something like that, or not the council of Ricks from Rick and Morty, that I kind of like but seems to be held upon very linguistic agreements of what needs to be done. Well, I see more like an orgy than a council, not paying respect to those really boring people that describe themselves as “super dionisiac” but are still attached to the whole body/mind divide… If they ever read Descartes… But there also some people that don't read Descartes and still contest him. Oh, I hate people, I really prefer the ghosts of me that “talk” to the ghosts of you, the ghosts of the future's past, or the past's future, something that has to do in a way with what Whitehead calls the “negative prehension” of an occasion or event that people who are too typical cannot really understand, but well, they have already all our jobs, I hope at least they give us the pleasure of understanding a *really* tinyyyyy part of Whitehead's ontological system. Ye language, you, me, it feels harder and harder to connect to. Everything being rendered to verbal modes. We didn’t even talk that much, which was very important. It is more a company, a soft-skinned, thought-flirtatious, same-variousness, ghost-lurking company. I love this kind of writing; going back, going forward, reading what you’re typing while I’m typing, changing things some creature said first because of things some creature said later. It is necessary. It has to be non-linear. I will not write unless it’s non-linear. There cannot be a pretending of a chronological dialogue between us, because there never was one. Me being vrey into you cannot be translated into a conversation between person 1 and person 2, since it never was and never will be like that. A non-coordinated non-linear talk between ghosts of us within and throughout all modes of being. I read frictionous instead of flirtatious during the first time (and that word doesn't even exist), but I think it's part of the soft-skinned conjunction to be frictionous, or frictional, what the orthography corrector says is the “right word”. Cats can be very frictionous no? Or raccoons… I guess that’s the reason we don't put our names on the paragraphs, because it's a lot of people writing, and soon I won't know which version of me or you wrote which thing. I guess we already don't know that, specially because it's not needed to know and point, take to the