 allow the presence of animals inside any place that serves food, except if it's a helping animal, like those dogs that are used to help people who are blind. I guess that's one of the reasons I cannot go to Brazil. But actually I was reading that one of the most famous cafés of Reykjavik had a cat and the health governmental agency asked them to not leave the animal inside of if because of the possible contamination of the food. But still, of course I would love to live in Iceland and would go any time if I had a job that paid me in Icelandic Krona, so I guess that's one contradiction. Maybe I just can't go there anymore because my body wouldn't survive a month that kind of environment. Sad but true. Anyways, the dogs were so happy at the cafe playing together. It's the second time I went there and I was the only dogless person/human/creature. All of them were with their respective owners. "Owners", what a concept. In the sense I became that kind of person that doesn't have a pet and keeps borrowing pets from another people. Not sure if I like the word borrowing in this context either, I prefer seeing myself as a polyamorous animal/non-human feeder. I hope that doesn't sound like zoophilia hahaha. Like now, the cat with the collar came here again and ate the food I put for the stray cat. She's in an advantage because the stray cat is super afraid, so if I put the food and she's nearby, the human-used cat arrives instantly and eats anything. I'm thinking of strategies for the food distribution. It's kind of melancholic to think that I can't have a cat by myself, or I can't have a more serious care/feeding relationship (but non-exclusive) with another animal because the idea of the future displacement of myself. I don't know what will be my future after 7 months and I don't want to put this other creature in this situation of having to enter an airplane to be in another place of which I don't know how long I would stay there. Speaking of airplane trips, I decided that my next shopping will include a pair of headphones with noise cancelling. I've been postponing this for years because it's kind of expensive, but it's a necessity. Not many interesting things in this message, no? I feel that it's the change of seasons...New weather patterns emerging.You referred to The Perfect Mango a couple of times, but somehow I knew I didn’t want to enter that text yet until today. I just read the introduction and it brought tears to my eyes. It is everything we talked about, and all the reasons why we keep making and living, to make life without reducing it to a simple living being. There is a world to be invented; a world always being invented, and this is the world that keeps me alive today. I think that is why I cannot live without fabulation, it’s often the only thing that keeps me writing, I don’t mean actual words on paper, no, writing as living.Just before I left for Montréal I wrote my best friend and parents a letter. I didn’t know if I could even come to Canada, I was close to giving up on all my plans. I felt nothing, I didn’t know anything, I was collapsing constantly and on all levels. But I figured; if I have nothing else than wanting to die, I can just as well do it there. If death in Amsterdam is the only outcome, Montréal could be the fabulation of a world worth living.  I wrote that I was sorry that every day they would find a daughter and a friend at their door that could only tell them she had to be with them just to make sure not to kill herself. I remember writing the letters so clearly, I couldn’t stop crying, I couldn’t read my own letters, most of the ink even vanished from the tears, it was so dramatic. What to say for the things you don’t want to put in words? What to say if all the words are one big bad cliché? I had to constantly be with somebody else, in company of another, because that was the only possibility not to feel my selfs floating out of my body until they floated so far away that even touching my skin, hearing my own voice coming out of my mouth, or looking into my eyes in the mirror would make me so anxious, to encounter something so unrecognizable, that I couldn’t feel, hear, see, smell, or taste anymore, making the best option was I knew that if at least they would recognize me as something like a body it must mean there still was a body. The proximity of the other bodies then allowed for me to latch onto another rhythm. Important when anxiety parsed everything into a single pace and rhythm. That, and the smell of cinnamon, cardamom, and Weyes Blood’s song Cardamom were the only things that kept me from floating away entirely. We just met but I have to confess; I knew you, before too; Summer is here; I have nothing to fear; Fresh new train of flesh for me to look down. For five years I would dream at least every week that a visitor came into my bedroom while I was asleep. I couldn’t see his face, it was one dark blur, but he was always wearing a winter coat and was as big as the door opening. He would say something like “If you say no it won’t happen”, “If you just move away I won’t harm you”. But then I would paralyze, I couldn’t move, I couldn’t talk, I couldn’t do anything. And as I was lying completely still in my bed, I would wake up, completely still in my bed, being unable to move or speak just like he wanted it. I would feel myself falling back into the one bedroom and back into the other bedroom, it kept flipping and folding, I kept being unable to move against the flip or the fold. Every week I already knew this nightly visitor would come, I kept on anticipating, mostly expecting him on days it already felt impossible to move in this strange world. I knew that feeling would repeat itself into the night, asking me to act, but keeping me in an unavoidable and infinite folding. The week before I left I had the dream for the last time eversince. Although it was very different, I dreamt I fought just outside the doorway. Strangely I feel something similar, although it goes in the opposite vectorial direction. I am afraid of the visitors I would receive when I go outside. At least in Montreal I feel better about that. I decided to put the cat picture because, apart from being a beautiful creature, it's the kind of nightly visitors I would like to attract. I have to say the ghosts that menace me don't have a right time of day to visit me but they're displaced across time and space. Also the image of the cat makes me think about my methods of distribution of food. That is the stray cat that visits me, and as I've said before, she knows I have food to offer her but she's really afraid. And the other cat always eats the food before. I guess that's the problems with all distributions that are based on the FCFS method (First come, first served). At the same time, I would never refuse food to the other cat, but I don't buy enormous quantities of food, so the one that is risked of being without food is each time her. FCFS is always attached to the idea of performativity, I don't mean performativity in an elaborate conceptualized way, but mostly oriented towards the common sense. If there's an opportunity, the performatic bees are already flying around, exhibiting their interests and appetites, while for some that's an impossible feature, or that costs too much for a body. I use FLCL (fabulation)  against FCFS but it seems to me that it doesn't always work, or sometime it barely works. What gives me goosebumps, because there are other selves of myself that I don't want to reinforce, like the accelerated one.By the way, just a note, I think the beauty of the Telegram and Slack channels reside on the multiplicity of selves they accept. It's so comforting to know that the ghosts of me can talk freely, being so incompatible with one another. One of the doctors I visited during my life said that I had a multiple personality disorder hahaha. Well, not sure if I it took as a compliment or as a menace. Look at this Fred Moten's passage. I was reading his last book, Stolen Life (2018). What do you think?Our actions are not twice behaved and disapparent stand-ins for standing, rather, they are animateriallity out and gone. They are neither the resistance of the object nor the insistence of the thing but something like a kind of negative relay between thingliness and nothingness that is given as an assertion, and in defense, of difference without separation, of consent not to be a single being. Our fate is not to become one and yet many; it is rather, to become a muni bird. (p. 244). I think we need some splash, urgently. I think I'm going to buy some packs of Cinnamon Altoids from Amazon. It comes in a can just like the tuna/salmon cans for cats. I think I started sleep walking again. Every morning I wake up with my feet hurt and full of blisters. Sleepwalking is a bit like those pictures taken in 1989, don’t you think? I don’t meet the variation of you in the evening so much anymore, because that’s when I’m already asleep being in a different timezone. You know 1989 was the year when Taylor Swift was born, no? But now I started wondering if I even really sleep, or just spend the night walking the corridors. Sometimes you hear someone say “She died of old age” and then I ask “But how does that happen?” to which they reply “The organs were just exhausted” but then I think “If that’s dying then I’m already dying”. Some might say that the only way we know death is as an opposition to life, but since events are never composed of like that, what do we even know. Often you kill me with your beautiful words. I guess there's a sort of connection. I've been waking up 