past, or maybe a famous writer. Could it be that I had returned to earth?In a flash I turned from nine to nineteen years old. I chose, although it didn’t please my parents, to keep writing. Twenty-three years old and on a trip all by myself to a different city. I told my parents that that would be the best way to be a writer. I met a lot of new people that were like me: obsessed. Once in a while I sent my parents a letter how I was doing, so I could by doing that still practice my writing. Two years later and two hopeless books later that no publisher wanted to publish. My life in the different city wasn’t as I had imagined. Shouldn’t I have done something else with my life? No, I had gotten this far and if I stopped now it would all have been for nothing. I kept on going. Just as in the past I kept on writing day and night. I read a lot and took walks in the park. One day I read a story about a young man that didn’t feel like he was in the right time just like me. He found something like a time-stone in an old monastery, with which one can travel to the past and the future. I didn’t know whether it was invented or real, but I was sure that I had to go to the time-stone. In the back of the book there was an address. It was in another country. I collected all my last money and I took the train. The next morning I was already there. The people I met there knew the story and were happy to tell me about the time-stone adventures . The young man went to Italy in the times of the Roman Empire. At that time he wrote the book with the message that he had had a pleasant travel, had arrived, and felt like he was finally at home. He also wrote a question asking the people in the monastery to spread his words so everybody could know about the possibilities of traveling with the time-stone. There I was. At the place where I felt like I could travel to a home. With the time-stone. I made one last call. If it made me happy, I should try it. So I went away for a week. Oh, I had such a good time! Finally, I went to the time of the first time-writers and cellphones. It happened, I was there. It was delicious, but on Sunday I had to go back again to the ‘normal’ time. Soon after though I went back again. I stayed there for the rest of my time and typed just like everybody day and night away on my typewriter. I found this, written on a typewriter, from when I was about thirteen years old. I used to have an old red typewriter when I was a child. I think I even learned how to type using it, before I had my first computer. I remember though that I had a phase when I liked to write backwards, typing or handwriting with cursive letters. It's not that I couldn't write in the “right” direction, but one day I woke up and thought it would be funnier to write everything backwards. My teachers got a bit worried because I didn't tell them or my parents that I could still write “normally". And this “malfunctioning” is medically or neurologically called something like “mirrored writing”. Also I remember writing a lot of things in the air with my fingers, what used to give me a lot of weird looks from classmates or relatives. I feel the waves again, my head is space-y, I wish it was Späz-ey, but unfortunately it seems like the panic attacks will reappear. The future is restless. I really understand the temptation to accelerate everything, if there's no future why not drive at full speed till the velocity distorts even the fabric of its own time? I wish I could talk about nice things.I'll try.Do you think cleaning the house is a way of anarchiving?For sure !** Now playing: Dolly Parton - Here You Come Again **Oh, today I met the landlady and she said during the work they would do to prevent my house from falling apart I can’t stay in the apartment upstairs, because they have no furniture or hot water. She'll rent an apartment nearby on Airbnb instead, which is okay. She's a lovely person and even offered me to have my money back for the next month if I want to stay in an apartment of a friend. I said well, it's better if you rent a place for me nearby for two weeks, and of course she agreed because she's lovely. After the work they will make a huge clean on the house, which will save me some anarchival cleaning time. It's funny though that my house is risking to fall apart at the same time that my body is falling apart. This quick displacement is the worst case scenario for me, I need some time to feel grounded in a place. I can't see the things and where they are from the moment I arrive there, even some weeks after (I just recently after four months living there discovered that I even have a basement). With this interruption I won't have time to set myself up again to plan what to do in the short future, besides that am I already being killed by the two-week trip to Brazil in December. I guess those little things are preparing me to the absolute death next May if I'm not able to find anything for myself after that. But how would I be able to find anything while moving so much? I guess that's what people can't understand, some creatures do not work or cannot work with the chronological time set up by typicality. I faced death other times but this is the first time I am facing absolute death in a few months. Absolute death could be a concept that cannot be accepted by the idea that we are in a continuum which doesn't separate what is dead and what is alive, but right now the ghosts that inhabit me are wandering around in this idea. I really hope this scenario will change but this state of affairs only makes me attracted to ideas of acceleration, I guess the only aspect that disallows me to fully embrace something like that is the interspecific disaster it could cause for this world (and it's already causing since the first anthropotechnical gesture that created Christ as a human-hybrid figure). I also love how these kind of theories remind me of The X-Files and the hybrids; but I wish we could return to the time when I was a child and conspiracy theories were things that more progressive people liked and not the identitarian-right-wing. Well, I guess this world passes through many phases, so many strata to be excavated. I was also thinking if I could get a PXL-2000 pixelvision camera I could attach it to an analog capture device that would forward the video to my computer; the video I could use as the source of something like skype, and then we could set-up something like a little film called Conversations of a Future-Past in which we'd skype and talk through time mixing the nightly -pixelated black-and-white cassette recorded image of the toy camera with the one you would give me back from your skype. Anyway, I'll intensify my search on Ebay and also the thrift-store because they're expensive and very fragile. Maybe I’ll get a malfunctioning one and see if somebody can fix it. I was reading a piece of news by Indiewire in which they say that those kind of cameras are extensively used by “artsy” filmmakers, but due to their fragility they're also killing this piece of media history. Not sure if I agree with this argument but it's funny to think about many things are dying: dying walls of my building, my dying body looking for a place to live, dying devices. I hope this mood will shift somehow. Somehow: I'm not sure if I want to deal with this kind of contingency. This confusion is affecting my senses. My senses were always confused in the sense that, you may have noted, I’m very affected by some kinds of smells and colour, like the hate I have for any kind of wasabi. But today I went to the Kazu restaurant line, and I thought, well, I've already eaten here this week, maybe I’ll go to another place. Then I went to the sushi place, asked for a place, took off my jacket and my backpack, but then the smell of the place made me puke. The smell was the same as always, so it's not their fault. But this body is changing. Then I went to the cheap Indian place, which also didn't feel right, something about the distribution of tables and chairs made me feel claustrophobic, but the distribution of furniture was the same as always. Then I decided to go back to Kazu, there was no line, which is rare, so I took it as a sign that I should sit there and eat again the tuna and salmon bowl with the little soup. Now I’m at the café writing this because it's the only thing I can do, not sure if there are forces to do other kind of work today. There were two guys recording a podcast about coffee places in Montreal and they were talking about how great coffee is here because of all the Italians that brought the tradition of good coffee. They emigrated to New York, but then some of them came here, and then there were also other populations which breed good coffee from Africa, Brazil, etc. Well, I don't know until now if I found the conversation interesting or not-interesting, maybe both at the same time? Don’t you find it funny that I can also write like a person? Oh my god, we almost reached 80 pages of message exchanging!!Somebody asked me today: “Oh, aren’t you going tomorrow to the manifestation against the far-right wing candidate in Brazil?”. And I said, no, it will be full of people. That reminded me of the time I matched with a girl on Tinder, while I was still in Brazil. It was a day when there was a huge manifestation against something really bad that I can’t even remember, because there were many things like that. And she said: “Well, I did my part. I went to the manifestation today. Did you do yours?”. I tried to explain her that not all bodies are fit to go to a place full of typical people who despite the multitude 