fficult but it was so much lighter doing it in your company, being-with you. The world is blue and there’s nothing we can do. Well there’s things we can do. We were talking about humans (not hvmans) only caring when things affect themselves. And that’s why it is necessary for us to keep writing and making and loving. It has been so nice to be in the same timezone as you, waking up together, going to bed together. September always brings a lot of spectres from the future for me. Spectrember? To flip back to the soles of your shoes.. I have noticed you touch them a lot. They’re very smooth! Smooth like the arch of your feet. I had never felt such soft arches like yours before! It’s intriguing cause again and again and again you move with your fingers on your toes in painful ways cause you find it difficult to walk through life. A speculative finding of feet? It was necessary to learn to walk again, colorful band-aids in every corner of the feet. I always get so stressed when I am buying new shoes. Because I never know what size feels good, often each size does not feel good. And then there’s somebody working in the shoe store asking: “And how does it feel?” Which just makes me want to scream: “I don’t know how it feels!!! I can’t feel my feet!!!!” A person once told me I should buy heavier shoes to make sure I keep my feet on the ground. Strange how shoes are represented in neurotypical structures. The shoes I wore a lot in Montréal have really coarse soles, which makes it possible for them to mischievously maneuver and take along things from place to place. Entering the elevator of the university, feeling that one of my legs was longer than the other, looking underneath my foot, finding a big pebble from the other dimension I was just in. Sometimes I took it out the grooves and put it on the floor of the elevator, sometimes I kept it there; keeping my one leg slightly longer than the other, somehow anticipating that that would come in handy later in the day. Leaving the big stone all alone on the floor reminds me of the one time that I was small and I was at the dentist and coughed, something small came up and I spit it on the floor. He got so mad and asked: “Why did you do that?! Would you’ve done that at your own home?!!” And I thought: “Yes I would”. I didn’t even understand what he meant with the distinction between my own home and other places when talking about coughing. I didn’t understand what I did wrong but he made sure I still felt ashamed. As if certain things shouldn’t cross certain thresholds, as if I should have been disgusted by things coming out of my body. I think we could link this to the relation to shoes. Somehow things from ‘outside’, or maybe better ‘some other side/site’ are not allowed to be left like that, taken along like that, maneuvered-with. Probably if I would have been in the elevator with someone from the university they would have asked: “Why did you do that?” or at least look at me in a certain way. It is because I like travelling things, either from the depths of my throat, or from the assemblage of big pebbles, I would have answered.  Shoes can be really good sm00th-operators, I am not sure if I will buy new shoes any moment soon because the soles of mine feel vrey sm00th. I really like to put my hands there specially when they travelled over carpets and things like that which apparently make them every smoothier. Although I went to the beach yesterday and my shoes are still full of sand and they seem a little bit less smooth. The sea though is also a sm00th-operators for our bodies, especially cold water. Delicious. It's always those typical questions: “ohh, but what is you project, what is your research, what are you doing". Somebody that seemed really interesting said that they really liked my presentation and then asked me if we could exchange some things because we're working on similar things. “Ohh, nice, I thought”. Then I said that I would send her the project I'm working on and it would be nice if she could send me something of her. “Ohh yes, bla bla bla, I want to read yours but only after October because I'm sending a lot of postdoc applications, etc.”. Not that I disliked this person but my body couldn't understand how that person separates time that well. I really don’t understand, because when I'm working on an application or something like that I think that everything I'm doing is part of that (everything I’m watching, everywhere I'm walking, every picture I take). Not in the sense that I’m going to insert those things in a paper or art piece or something like that, but simply because I cannot separate what I feel during those experiences from what I’m writing or doing. Well, not only when I’m writing an application or something alike. I feel that everything belongs to a certain world-building, that sometimes can converge to a multiverse-building due to all the inhabitants that haunt this what people like to call a body. I don't really understand this process of ontologization that says that the format of an application and its “selected bibliography” is more important than reading what other people do, or look at how the cats are chasing birds on the street. But people tend to do that, especially with time, departmentalized time, I guess that's one of the reasons why they get the jobs in this really boring world. At the same time I’m really excited, it seems to me that Aarhus is a place with a lot of potentials for ghosts of the future and the past, or to be anarchivized, something that I believe is already being done. People would say that this kind of feet soles belong to individuals who never worked much in their lives, but I'm not sure about that. And yes, writing and loving and making is necessary to keep alive this continuum where nobody knows where one begins and the other ends.*** Now playing: Ata Kak - Obaa Sima ***There is no inside or outside, but rather modes of insiding or outsiding. I want modes for making and writing that directly relate to and consist out of sharing, caring, glancing, being together, fluidity and fragility. Mirrors, ice, and glass are surfaces that can be related to writing surfaces. One numbs experiences or encounters when one does not know what to do with them yet; they freeze, to be defrosted when new compositions of words arrive. Transmission and reflection do not only become immediate forms, but also attitudes. Sharing, with oneself, with others, with creatures, or with thingies. What is between them, as the flows between them, as a wet approach to assembling, editing, and gathering. You’re boarding right now, I feel so strange.That's a way of anarchiving no? For me it has to do a lot with care techniques, but not care related to the identitarian or unitarian people but to the events that specially include other creaturesque ecologies of non-human or more-than human. But it's impossible to write or read anything right now because they're cutting onions in the kitchen of the cafe. I really don't like this sensation, it seems to me there's a lack of care, everybody  are rubbing their hands in their eyes. Maybe I’ll have to come back to this document later. What do you think about onions? Do you remember when we used to come to this cafe and this sensation contaminated everything?But this café also brings me memories of the Danish dog around your house nearby. I just developed a roll of film and look who I found:Hello. Hello-ooo-ooo!  I couldn’t believe that you can’t just stand up and walk out of it. You can’t even go in the train or car and you have to go for hours and you’re still inside the city. And this completely freaked me out, I was so claustrophobic, and I was so obsessed with oxygen; I couldn’t breath. I was trying to touch the buildings and scrape of the grease and try to get in touch with things. It was very scary. But then I learned to relax all about it and I found it kind of kinky. (Björk interview) Something is happening again. I was told that when you go into an MRI scan, you go into such a big magnetic force that your balance organ is affected by it. While you’re sliding into the machine, it feels like you’re turning to the right, but ‘actually’ you’re just sliding straight into it. “Actually?” I said. “Yeah you’re confused of what actually happened.” But then I thought; if you feel you turned right, then it still also ‘actually happened’. I really don’t understand when there’s a difference made between those things! It happened, again, and at the same, always, and again again. For me everything I think, dream, feel, remember is just as part of what happened. And honestly, often I can’t even discern between those things. And honestly, it’s often a bigger part of what happened than what ‘actually happened’. That’s why I really don’t trust someone when they can just get out of bed and wake up like hop hop hop. No, I need to transition! So much happened. So much happened again. I went to a talk of Laurie Anderson, while she was talking and showing and making I wrote down some words in the dark. Reality not as something to recognize anymore. What are nights for? To fall through time into another world? Still living in a world of stories, soon you’re not telling the stories; we’re drowning in our own stories. And then something I can’t read. Gravity’s random, but could also be gravity’s raindown. When he appears late in the story it is only because he simply wasn’t written yet. All the things I lost in the flood. For everything you don’t know; true or false. If ponies were people, they’d all be in jai