ut please let there be room to actual leak without being drained. I keep on thinking how to incorporate those experiences and vocabularies into writing practices. How to write about an event? How to write with “I” without ever meaning “I”? “[Celebrating] the fragility and the persistence of the minor gesture, perceiving in it more potential than in the self-directed “I” that stands outside experience and speaks the major languages of the brands of individualism and humanism that frame neurotypicality as the center of being.” (Manning, 2016; 7) What about fabulation? I saw that my art school has I’m Very Into You in their library. I’ll go there Monday and get it. I’m still doubting though if I should read it, but still I think it’s good if it’s here in my bedroom. Somebody, who I always thought hated my writing, asked me if she could have the text I read last week. Parts of it came out of here, so I put it as a reference, only to find out after I hit send that the autocorrect turned it into I’m Very Into You. Maybe I should still send an email now 5 days later: “I’m so incredibly sorry, but please, you should know it’s VREY. I’m vrey into you. I’m vrey into it. I’m vrey, I am.” Seeing the little red waves dancing underneath all its iterations. What’s nice about giving presentations is that it’s easier to steal words and to weave them like your dreams would, naturally and mischievously, your own and others, well they were never anyone’s to begin with, always a leaky sense of self, never personal, always intimate, always repeating. “Language is always ambiguous as to the exact proposition which it indicates. Spoken language is merely a series of squeaks” (Whitehead, 1978: 264). A wet vocabulary, a strange turning point cd-dvd-record shop, a fabulatory portal pore, a lure, a doubling of entering layers, a reading with, a reading of already felt but not yet read,  a materialing-there-there spin-out-with-and-and yes. The turning point picture you posted reminded me of this cup I bought in the thrift store. Do you remember when we went to that store? The same place where I got that lovely piece of orange/red garment, a good velvet lure for creatures. For me the equivalent for “Heyyy! How is it being back? How are you? You want to hang out soon?” is "Hey, nice to have you back here. What are you doing?", but the worst is "Ohhh, until when are you going to stay here?". I hate this presupposition that I have to leave at some point especially because I know I don't have certainty for a lot of months so it's a kind of enunciation that just accelerates the process of intensification of anxiety. I have to say it's tricky not to fall into the supposed wonders of acceleration and velocity with the clock pointing to two minutes before midnight. In that sense, I feel that the end of this world already happened, it's just sending its virtual affects back into this time that will eventually be actualized. If it's unavoidable, what's the point of being here? I know this goes against all kinds of things we are supposed to support but sometimes it's difficult to enter into this mood or tonality. I wonder, I think for me to live any place there should be a time of compressing and decompressing that takes months, something made impossible by the actual neoliberal regime of distribution of bodies - well, I have to say most of my left-wing friends also have the tendency to believe in incessant work, they're so proud of it, they post everyday on the fucking Instagram stories how much they produced and how much time after their regular work hours they stayed writing (specially journalists that have to work on weekends). Poor them, which reminds me that some years ago I was reading Wilhelm Reich, who is very interesting and had this motto about working and loving, but unfortunately when people talk about work is always the NT approach to it, chronological time, not a time that needs some time itself to rest a bit. I guess fabulation and powers of the false are the creation of time itself, if I'm not mistaken. So maybe, well, i'm not that certain that every minor gesture is fabulation or contain it but for me, yes, and I think it has always been. Some kind of experiential glue is needed in cases of waking up as one person and leaving the bed as another one, which is not so well accepted by the judgemental society that likes to chunk people into an unity that is there to be judged and evaluated. But what if this constellation is not the same as one minute ago? I mean, literally, I'm not sure if people understand that. I remember when I was younger I use to leave notes to the other versions/ghosts of myself, or I should say, a-self, or (a)self, hmmm. The cup that reminds me of the image of the turning point was just tested in the microwave, to make an infusion of dandelion roots, not the best kind of tea and technically not even tea, but they say it's good for kidney stones, which apparently are not very active in my organism right now but I feel they can appear in the future again. It's happening again. I'm not sure if I answered your questions about the I, but maybe? I think so.  The leakage of Späz into the university (found it!) I was translating Always more than one to Portuguese and look at this beautiful sentence by DJ Savarese I found there: “We might stop a movement. People think we're avoiding doing some work, but we're deserting our reasonable selves because we feel a fearful sound or see quiet green reassessed as approval”. I put some tuna/salmon cat food outside for the stray cat. She visited me today and is less afraid of me. It's really funny to think that my preferred meal (Tuna/Salmon bowl at Kazu) is similar to the food I use to feed my cat friends. Well I guess they deserve it. Although deserving is a very human/typical concept, so maybe not. I guess if you would tell somebody that, always a different self, they would put you in some category of a multiple personalities disorder. But variations of the same are always through and through and not happening on the superficial layer of how skin is often approached containing some self inside in a world outside. For that to experience has nothing to do with mental health categories but with something like paying attention, an attunement. Although I’m not sure about that phrase, maybe better a certain sensitivity. And then I don’t mean sensitivity as if it used in neurotypical situations as a trait of an individual. “Oh you’re so empathetic” but as a sensitivity all around. I was a bit surprised when I first met you to see a tattoo on your skin. If I think of tattoos I get a bit nervous. A note of a moment scares me, but also all the notes of moments that were not made scare me. So it is not so much about a specific tattoo but also about all the tattoos that didn’t come to be there. This counts for all the other events just as much, but a tattoo is a simple example to think about. I guess yours is a bit like the notes you wrote for the ghosts of yourself, or better the ghosts of a self. One of the few things I cannot be without is my necklace. I am still surprised that there is something I feel comfortable wearing everyday. So many clothes or jewelry I have I like one day but cannot imagine having near me the next. Maybe that’s why it sometimes takes hours for me to put clothes on. I love staying in my bed after a shower, first with the towel, but then always losing the towel between the sheets. I stay there reading and writing. And I simply cannot get dressed because I cannot determine my mood or my self, or better a self. Sometimes, or often, everything feels wrong to wear. Except my necklace and towel underneath the sheets. But then always this moment arrives in which being in bed for too long becomes suffocating, I feel myself turning into the grandparents of Charlie & The Chocolate Factory, and I need to move. Like you every morning. I would watch you lying in bed, waking up, watching the boring people on the Instagram, but then suddenly there was this move, you had to move on this move, there was no choice. Even if I asked you to stay, you would give me a short hug but I felt in everything that there was no time for a hug, you had to move on that move. Sometimes, or often, the move was simply a few steps towards the table to sit on the chair and do not much more than “just sitting”. But I felt it was not about what you would do, more about the directionality of your body. A body had to sit, it could not lay anymore without getting too sad and drown in the bed once more. Not sure if I have a piece of vestuary that I couldn't live without, like your necklace. Well, you could say I use the same boots everyday but I don't do feel that it's a necessity, if I had to use another pair of boots or sneakers it would be okay. What I'm sure of is that some pieces are necessary for certain situations, I would say again it's the patches and the pins. During the book launch on the friday I was using two pins: the Welcome to McDonald's one and the Dougie Jones. Still I think I needed more. Too many people performing their not so interesting appetites (very straightforward ones and situated over a certainty on the success of language). I believe in the failure of the language, as Derrida or Butler would say. I hope tomorrow I'll finally develop the film from my new camera. Today I went again to the Doggy Café. Basically it's a dog friendly café and restaurant. I just don't understand why that's not the standard of any café. I remember some countries I visited that don't allow the presence of non-human animals inside their rooms. In Brazil the law doesn't