 foreground...I’m feeling vrey sleepy, it's 12:24 AM in Copenhagen.Could you live in a place with zero pieces of furniture?I love frictionous, or frictioness, or fricticious. Frictional, fictinal, fabulational. Fabulation is vrey frictionous, don’t you think? The versions of me and you writing, and capturing. It is a good thing that we have the same camera. It makes so much sense. I feel like your film roll was in mine, and I developed your captures, or we developed my capturing fabulation, or you captured our frictionous development, etc., etc. I want to wonder more about frictionous relating to fabulation relating to capturing. I’ll leave some space here to come back to that soon. Or you know what, I think we are already coming back to that by writing this. Also, did you see I included the picture of the spread-out tea, slowly falling out of the tiny hole in the bottom of the cup? What I like about that image is that it only works on a certain scale. If it’s small enough, it blends, everything backgrounding, but then when it is just a bit bigger, it expands, everything foregrounding; by being blurry it never will. Which is beautiful, it cannot foreground because there was no specific capturing. I certainly do not think that enlarging relates to foregrounding, or that by enlarging something gets foregrounded, but for this instance I think yes, that’s the case. Or better, it tries to do so, but at the same time can forever keep on doing so because it will never fuelly come there. Imagine, the picture expanding and expanding, falling of my laptop screen, falling of yours, onto the picnic table, along the street onto the river bank, greetings the swans, into the water. I would love to be in friction with those swans and ducks, maybe feed them, not sure if I would like to feed them because they're already too much fed by the humans that think that they exist to serve their desires of cuteness. I was afraid to interact with them because the parents of the child would find it strange - a 30 year old person interacting with their young daughter. It was funny, though, there was a constant tension, because I felt like they were going to bite the girl any time soon. On that sense, I liked that the parents let her feed them and get bitten, at least she experiences another less cute-human oriented version of animal politics than the usual servitude they expect from creatures that are not considered ontologically equal but as servants of guilty photographing. I think the image of the almost leaky tea not only has this uncanny tonality, because of the camera that used to take it… It's so funny that we have the same camera, but as you, I’m a bit tired of having it. It always fails in something, well, I like failure, but I think my Snappy is going to reach absolute failure really soon, I hope after I end this expensive trip to Denmark I'll be able to finally buy a better analogue camera from eBay or find one in the group of traders. Also the almost-leakage of the tea reminds me of the leakage that caused your keyboard to act strangely, as the pores of your body, no? It seems that all machines are contaminated by this feeling of failure sometimes, and there's nothing we can do besides waiting. Them to disappear, break, or new machines to appear (what usually involves a lot of money…). At least your pores are working again no? Every time I end a paragraph I feel that I didn't answer anything that was commented before, but yes, maybe I have serious problems with linearity. Eventually those answers are not answers, instead new questions will appear, or will have appeared in a future that is also a past. Is it future or is it past? Oh those pores.. I really don’t want to see the camera, the keyboard, or the skin, as something that ‘works’. The keyboard was an accumulation of humidity and dust, the skin an infected pore, the camera stopped making contact with its energy source, which basically came down to a simple closed item not wanting to close anymore. It’s all one and the same if you ask me. Spectres of the future haunting me, being very very persistent. They are good for fabulating, but also bring a lot of anxiety, which asks for techniques and relays, as always needed at the edge of an event. But I think it was needed, those pores questioning actively. The ‘o’ on the keyboard not working anymore and adding o’s to all the other letters, creating a lot of jumping o’s, asked for new writing techniques but also forcing me into a practice of moving through thresholds, those of medical care, Apple Care, similar sites with stressed humans and too much air conditioning. Only way out was to fabulate with the jumping o’s. The skin copied the detour of the keyboard… but how to write with a skin of jumping o’s? Maybe there’s potential in the accumulation or stretching of skin as dust itself. Isn’t the biggest percentage of dust skin anyways? I wonder how those insides and outsides relate to the spectres of the future and their multidimensional portals. For example Je t’aime Je t’aime not taking into consideration the body going into the past, but then having a set design that was so skin-like. Pores as portals? To other dimensions! Jumping r’s, vrey into you. Intimate, but not personal. What about net bags? Spectres of the future are always visiting me. I wake up and they are already there. Sometimes I wonder if that virtuality of the future that decomposes me will really actualize or if there's no future at all without the right conditions… Well, I know time linearity is not a thing, what makes me live the future that will not happen in the future right now, and it's a kind of painful future. I wonder if with accumulation other movements appear. Movements that are not necessarily of accumulation but of dispersion. Like dispersion of the particles of textile every time I go to the laundromat, something gets lost, tiny particles of textile disappear by using, reusing, watching and drying everything many and many times. I know also some things are attached to them by contagiousness and cross-pollination of adventures in the laundromat, or the salt from the sea that penetrates my pores and my swimming clothes. But most things get thinner, like the sole of my boots, I really like the sensation of touching them and seeing that they're becoming smoother. You may have noticed that I do that oftenly. Repetition, or obsession, as some psychiatrists have said to me. I remember one of them talking to me that if I didn’t resolve the questions of repetitive behaviour I would never get a job. Guess what, I'll never resolve these questions because they're not really questions but just false problems (except that I may never get a job, which will bring more spectres from the future and things like that, but well, let's see). I really love new obsessions, saying the same words again and again and again. Of course each time it's in a different way but most of the people are not able to see that. You know I really hate boring things and boring people but maybe repetition is something that bothers those boring people or at least this kind of repetition that is less repetitive or in a less boring way for them to put everything into the neurotypical topology back again and smile like everything is okay and working… I couldn't continue to watch the Alain Resnais’ film after that. Well, I watched, but really bored. That's basic sci-fi rules that were not obeyed, not that I'm a purist or something like that, it's just that it doesn't make any sense, even if it was supposed to be a nonsense, it failed on that. It was more like a spiritualist film for me, in which the soul had to travel and see again and again what it did in a purgatorial way without having any agency - not that I believe in free will, but I believe in an infinitude of possible worlds. God morgen. :tarquin: It's strange that we're now on the same timeline (or time zone) no?I'm watching a presentation about waste and empty environments. A very normative and boring presentation. But at least it reminded me of a Thai restaurant i loved to go in Milano that was usually completely empty before 1PM. Somebody on my Facebook just posted a quote by Peter Levine “Trauma is not what happens to us, but what we hold inside in the absence of an empathetic witness.” Do you like quotes on trauma on boring social media accounts? I’m not sure about the inside, the absence, the witness, the text, the font. I like our font better, it’s called spectral. I’m glad that our texts are soaked in specturality, says more about ghosts from the past than any part of that quote, don’t you think? I guess so, not sure if describing again and again my traumas would lead to anywhere interesting! It resonates with something I've heard during the conference in Aarhus. The person was talking about her trip to India and she said: “That was the only place in the world where I couldn't cross the street”. Well, I guess I wouldn't be able to cross the street there, but also the only place that I feel I couldn't cross the street is this world itself, and all of its iterations, from East to West, up and down. Crossing the street is always a difficult task. But yes, I think I prefer the alleys, Montreal has many of them. One of the things I like about the city is the possibility of not having to walk through the street full of people and talk to them but through the alleys and interact with the groundhogs and dogs and stray cats, well, I don't even know what interaction is, but to be-with. And also with the broken washing machines… I have been missing you too much. I find living vrey di