then the equation is too much complicated, since 30 seconds being in the middle of humans exhaustively showing both their requirements and “important works” are equal to at least five or six hours of anxiety and anger, which means if I stay in a kind of work like that for 8 hours a day my body would start to feel the accumulated typicality and then, peeing blood, headaches, vomit, until my body would completely expel itself to be eaten by the microorganisms that populated this world before us (fortunately they will still be here after the disappearance of the human species from earth, even with the disaster of climate change reaching its beak - I do care a lot about the interspecies holocaust that is already happening because of the exhaustion of this world). BTW, on the pages that follow after the quote I typed here are some interesting words about other systems of evaluation and the university, but right now I just took my sleeping pills, I cannot really type anything besides this little message or post-scriptum. I went to my old art school because it’s one of the few places in Amsterdam that has a copy of I’m Very Into You. I also went there to have a coffee with an old lover, but as soon as I smelled his familiar smell I understood I didn’t love him anymore. It was a bit painful because in the way he encountered me I could tell how much he cared about me. He said as I was looking out of the window that my eyes always look as if I’m drowning in my thoughts. I said, oh yes, I drown all the time, to which he said I imagine your head as if it’s Atlantis. He asked a couple of weeks ago already if he could sleep at my place and I told him no. Two minutes after he posted a iPhone drawing of a vulva on his Instagram. I proposed to have this coffee. He said he had seen that one of my closest friends had been up to; weaving the sounds of birds in a little tower. I felt a bit pretentious, getting the Very book and another one from Deleuze. The person from the library was nice though, he let me take them even though I didn’t have a student number and they misspelled my last name. Reading the preface before I got onto my bike made me sad. They talk about a seduction, not about a love. It made me think whether this is for you also a temporary seduction instead of creating conditions, sharing sensitivities and having love for all variations of each other. I had to think about my dream again in which you told me you never wanted to see me again to which my pores replied by clogging until I died. I stopped halfway on the bike because I wanted to write all of this down, but somewhere where they were doing the piping so it smelled like poop and I moved to further down the street where the park begins with the little tower and the loom and the birds. So sad so sexy, spectre confetti What do you think about when you see a green polyester textile bag from Dollarama? I went to the laundromat today and brought it as always. I always wash the bag with the clothes. But I think the bag is dying, or becoming another thing, for it's full of little holes. Funny thing that I've brought two of these bags to Denmark but when I've put them in the drier in the highest setting they both melted (I had to carry all the clothes in my hand praying that they didn't fall on the street, good thing I washed just a few pieces that day). Not saying that the Danish driers are better, and I guess Stig Helger wouldn't agree with that; just this specific laundromat. But I still didn't find forces to walk to a further laundromat with better dryers. Let's see if that happens during the winter, that is coming. I also had a coffee with a friend today. But didn't buy any books. Funny to think that you have very in your hands right now. I think it’s probably true to say that, unlike the sun god, and the Gods of monotheism, Whitehead’s god has no face. This God is far too immersed in the complexity and variation of world. It is not the face so much as relational contrasts (that is, intensities) that connect in process. This perhaps make the term “interface” redundant. (Andrew Murphie, not yet published) Oh almost 100 pages Everything we write as a question, that is open, that marks multiplicity, goes beyond the individual and is to be endlessly unpacked and explored. Techniques of reusing, rehearsing, reviving, revisiting, reviewing, and reciting. To think that we are not writing when we wrote it. In Very all of it is emails, which makes it a conversation, a correspondence, but in Vrey everything is in the live word file, making it at the same time and at the same place, making it into a meeting rather than a dialogue. Vrey is perhaps written because we are neglecting everything what we were supposed to write instead; emails, tweets, to-do-lists, names for alarm reminders, linkedin profile, grant applications, answers to the same questions. No Vrey is written because it is not a neglecting, it is a caring for everything we are writing here. I always like words but then when I attend a whole evening of people reciting lines at some point I’m just sick and sick of it. One person told the audience that they were wearing a wig and then suddenly all the other people seemed to be wearing one as well. Lovers of bad timing. I wanted to go and leave all the words, maybe there were just too many words at some point, I saw I had accidentally drawn a spaceship, or some kind of aircraft, in my notebook. “What about all the things that go unsaid?” That’s such a boring question, that’s the anarchive, it’s all about the things that go unsaid. Maybe that’s why when too many words are said it makes me want to leave. Everything we write as a question, but not a verbal one, let me circle around you, take care of you, float away and listen to the things we never said. Makes me want to wrap you in, or it, not to hold away from what is around you, but to circle around until it’s happening again; to start unpacking. But not unwrapping until there’s nothing left, no, maybe circling in the opposite direction to see all that got caught in the circles between. Or threading back and seeing all the dust that got caught onto the needle’s track. Not unwrapping as in unraveling an essence, oh no, let’s forever forget about that. Unthreading as in starting the same question with different words. Or better; as in starting the same question with a different temporality of letters: Vrey? Maybe it was always the same question as Very had, but with a different temporality of letters, and thereby with a different temporality of meeting. Like Dougie, and Cooper, and Other Dougie, and Mr. C, and whoever more than that; a different writing, in the same document. Forever writing, circling, leaking, meeting, becoming, dancing, assembling letters - I wake up to your words that you have been writing while I was doing the same in my sleep.It took me some days to gain some forces to write here again, the Brazilian elections ate all my energy and I couldn't complete any single task for the past two days. In a certain sense, I knew that it was impossible for me to live there; not saying never, but right now the conditions are not favourable, independently of who wins in the second round. Of course I don't want the far-right candidate to win, but any result already established that a body that cannot sustain itself as the same body for more than two days (or two hours) cannot stay with all pieces together in a place that requires from you the constant positioning (in a sense of a subject that has to posit its views in a very clear and, I would say, typical way). I repeated many times that “Dougie Jones doesn't take position”. I guess another way to say what I want is: “Dougie Jones doesn't perform their position according to the signs expected by both the macro and micropolitical eyes”. I imagine that some people would think that both me and Dougie Jones are apolitical creatures. The issue is that their view of politics simply cannot understand that bodies are political and that bodies are what they can do; their affordances. Not in an essential way, I believe in plasticity, and I'm not also confining this kind of politics, I would say an animal politics according to what Massumi develops in his book, to the primacy of the experience. If I would, I would say that only those who suffer and experience the world not in the traditional way have a voice or can talk about it. If that was the case, this world had already failed. But people believe in hierarchies of both discursive and bodily enunciates: in moments like this, all the energy must be focused on the “universal” well-being, an universal that is a world-selecting, a world that can fit all kinds of identities but not those who live in the thresholds of where I end and you begin: what would be the “performance mark” of those creatures, without having to pass through all the anxiety that comes with the faking performance of being a typical activist? That's why, of course I would vote for the left-wing in Brazil and I aim for their victory, but this world, the typical world, already won. I guess I'll have to stay far away from there for a while, visiting my cats, but not aiming to effectively live there. Not sure why I didn't remember this before, but once a dated a girl who had a partner that is a neuroscientist. Basically what he was doing in his research was looking into neuronal markers for autism and other kinds of “issues”, and intervene on them through electrical stimulation, in order to stimulate the development of ‘empathy’ and other ‘social skills'. I'm not going to enter into the discussion if the scientific research was val