of affects share a common voice, because I would feel panicked and anxious. But it didn’t make any sense to her, “how come, as a man, you didn’t go to the manifestation?”. “Well, I’m not a man”. “What are you then?” “I have no idea of what I am”. Obvious that conversation didn’t go anywhere because besides talking in almost two different languages it seems like in two different ontologies. Or worlds. That’s why I thought about the necessity of the “FUET memo” that was published on Inflexios. Fabulatory Unit for Emergency Times is needed, also because it vouches for kinds of participation that are neither representative or explicit, simply because those are modulations of putting ourselves into the political world that don’t consider the Spinozist conception of what a body can do, or how things cannot endure. Right now, what can I do? I’ll eat some oranges. ** now playing: Gigi D'Agostino - L'amour toujours**death.jpg I was browsing Instagram stories again. Maybe that's the most toxic thing I do, besides cutting my own feet to relieve the absent presence of the ghosts of the future. A proud mother everyday showing her prodigious little girl playing the piano, going to manifestations, swimming, wearing a princess dress, learning English, everything focused on her face with a blur filter. Some people on a party, faces with logos, faces smoking cigarettes, faces smiling, faces with their 'partners’, faces watching Netflix. Faces, faces and faces. It's kind of sad that people understand faciality only referring to their human all too human faces. Then I stop instagramming, go look for grants to feed the ghosts of the future. Can't find anything, go back to Instagram stories: faces doing live videos explaining the importance of (... I can't even remember), faces drinking, faces celebrating the weekend, faces eating a vegan pie with gifs of faces around the food. Only human faces of course. A girl who is learning to play a tambourine with her face painted, a boy showing his new beautiful haircut. I go back to search for grants, maybe even a new PhD, everything needs an interview, more frontal conversations feeding the ghosts of the future. No future and no past, I feel that those human faces live in a non-time, sucking energy, creating vortexes that suck all my will to live. Then I watched that little film again that Godard did in which he's joyfully browsing at full speed the pictures of his phone. I don't remember if there were many humans there. Maybe I should watch it again. But I assume he's laughing because he's already 90 years old and is leaving this world soon, ‘what the fuck is this world I'll depart from soon? Hhahah’. But I hope that doesn't happen, I don't want Godard to die (maybe only some of his fans). I guess people call that a lot things, the spectacle, for example. I'm not sure what to call all of this, I just want to meet creatures with no faces or faces that are not over the neck, maybe that's what made me so happy when the airco-guy visited me for the first time (and until now, the last). If it is possible to assign the faciality machine a date- the year zero of Christ and the historical development of the White Man- it is because that is when the mixture ceased to be a splicing or an intertwining, becoming a total interpenetration in which each element suffuses the other like drops of red-black wine in white water. (A Thousand Plateaus, p. 182)Yesterday something from the clothing line fell back into the laundry machine. I have no idea how it even did that. But I saw it happening, I saw my pair of panties fall of the line back into the machine. I should’ve responded to the movement, put the machine back on. Instead I put it back onto the line and let it dry. Now I’m afraid of what will happen next time I wear that pair of panties. It wasn’t ready to leave the laundroworld yet. Well maybe I was just teasing it a bit. You and I were in the snowy mountains last night and that’s where we met the jumping bobcat. We were also in the living room of someone we knew and there the cat lived as well. We found out we had known the cat all along. “Ohh!! Are you the jumping bobcat?! But we’ve met you already.” The living room and the snowy mountains were the same place at the same time. Jumping bobcats make use of portals and we moved along. A bit later we were together again in another living room and there were a lot of people I knew. You were just moving as you always do, just as you felt like doing. But then all the people kept asking me why you did what you did and I had to explain all your moves. I was holding a baby and it kept slipping out of my arms. I was sad that we had left the snowy mountains and were suddenly surrounded by all the questions, you were watching something on the tv about bobcats sliding in the snow. Actually now I think of it, it wasn’t really a living room but instead a waiting room. Who knows what we were waiting for. A non-anthropocentric incorporeal entity that keeps intervening in our daily lives through dreams and hallucinations. As Ludueña (2015, p. 44) says, “this point of view may make it possible to think dreaming without making it the secret guardian of our identitary dreams”.Often I think, what will I write in vrey next time. I can’t imagine of something new, but then somehow somewhere I know what to write. It’s tricky though, how to find writing techniques that open up for fabulation and move away from boring singular points of view. Maybe there should happen some anarchival editing soon. I found this book again that my teacher in art school once told me to read. He used to call me the log-lady, carrying something everywhere everytime no matter where no matter when, caring for it and being cared by it. “You don’t really have an art practice, I would call it instead a practice of living, where you just move and sometimes show us coagulations of those processes of movements.” Actually I thought of the book again because - do you like thingies? - it is called The Things, written in 1965 by a phenomenological psychotherapist. It is a weird book, which talks about the changeability of things. I think I hate it but also love some of the writing. It has been very long since I read it though, I should read it again. It is very fubalotory, but always from the singular human’s point of view and methods accordingly, which just utterly bores me. I can only read it as some Husserl fan fiction. First contemplation. The bar that moved is longer now. Or shorter, it depends on where it moved to, and its surroundings. In any case is a meter here not the same as a meter there - in which the word ‘meter’ doesn’t seem to fit the equation. Because the meter, in the sense of a hundred centimeters, which means a constant, a once and for all captured size, is the proof of the changeability of things. I realise, however, that the meter, just as the things that had to be measured, by their move, changed in length, can keep the word of a meter. I want to remember everything what I considered this day very well. The length of the measuring tape changes with each movement, in the same way as the thing that has moved, the thing to be measured, that thereby, measured by the measuring tape, keeps the same length. With that insight can the line be maintained, that the meter, just as the distance, just as the length, never has the same size. What about translating? Is is a strange kind of writing practice, don’t you think?oooooooooo vacuuming? You know I am not a sweeping person! More like vacuum sm00th-operators!I was at Café Nevé today and then watched this guy browsing a website with all kinds of dried herbs, looked like all those black markets in the 'deep web' that sell all possible variants of weed, even those that are too strong and are therefore not legalized by the state. Then I looked closer and saw it was a website with all kinds of dried spinach, with really fancy names (and very expensive), coming from many parts of the world. He was also looking for the best fresh pasta that could be bought online. For me translating is like writing a fanfiction, or an anarchival practice. Is this a fanfiction? It would be a really strange kind of fanfiction since you still didn't read the 'original' text. I kinda like this "strangeness", although I have to say the book that activated the title of this book is really good. Do you remember that fanfiction I bought in Drawn and Quarterly, I Love Dick - A fanfiction? I'm looking into it right now, resting and sitting on my table. I don't have a lot of books in Canada. Some years ago I used to think that I could never move somewhere if I couldn't carry all my books, which would be a bit problematic since I have many. Now I really don't care about that. Of course I would love to have all my books here but for obvious reasons (I won't pay a container trip for them without knowing how much time I have left here and even my books wouldn't fit in my little apartment). Unfortunately the only bobcat I saw was in the Montreal Biodome, a place that I think is kind of horrible, but I went there because the daughter of a friend was eager to visit it. I hope that bobcat escaped from the zoo, finding a nice place to live inside your dreams!I guess today my topics were kind of really boring. Funny to see how many different tonalities we gathered here until now. Yours was really exciting and fabulatory and mine just boring. But I had a boring day. I just downloaded the chapter of The Lure of The Ghost with your comments and "corrections" but I think I won’t open the file until tomorrow. I guess I don't want to contaminate it with my bored