with a lot of scratches in my back. Definitely it's not something that my body could do by itself. And I've not been sleeping with anybody. But they really look like scratches, and I also can't remember hurting myself accidentally. But then, what is the cause of those things? I would love to be visited by a creaturesque entity that scratches me. Don't take me wrong, I understand your fear of human entities visiting during the night, but I think the kind of visits I would love to receive is of the non-human type, like the stories from my childhood I've been also describing in Lure of the Ghost. But how to summon them through a non-anthropotechnical bias? I remember very well one class of my PhD supervisor in Brazil, he was teaching Spinozist ethics and specially talking about the fear people have about discussing the concept of God or the point of view of God in Spinoza. Well, it's basically the point of view of the event itself. And calling it god is not a problem, actually I like to call it god to irritate some secular friends that have other kinds, and I would say, wayy more transcendental than any Spinozist god. Anyways, he was talking about that and he told, "well, of course, it doesn't make any sense if you go to candomblé and umbanda (Afro-american Brazilian religions) and the spirit that manifests through you or your guide gives you precise human orientations, and very moral ones, like "do not betrayal your lover" or "take care of your children", bla bla bla. So basically i'm calling forth those interdimensional creatures just making them speak in my own boring human language? That's the opposite of anything exciting for me. I want hos(ti)pitality in dealing with unknown creatures, I don't need to say anything to the cats that visit me here because we communicate through our manifestations of appetites through non-linguistic signs. I guess that's what happened between us, we didn't have to talk humanly to know we already knew each other. By the way, can you believe I'm writing this while on the other tab of my browser I'm watching Brazilian live television, more specifically a soap-opera. I think beside cats, dogs and some relatives, Brazilian television would be one of the things I would miss more, hahaha, nothing that I cannot resolve with my VPN and the right streaming websites. Well but you love The X-files and there are a lot of humanized aliens there. Well, that's true, but there are many humans that have more-than human tendencies in that tv show, including Mulder and Scully. Of course as two creatures attuned to the more-than and sharing mutual interests they would’ve taken the maximum of 7 days to sleep together and not 7 seasons and 1 movie before it finally happened. It's funny that they also talk about The X-Files in the I'm Very Into You by Kathy Acker and Ken Wark. I'm not trying to create a parallel with their work but for me it's impossible to not bring anarchival traces from that tv-show since I both restarted watching it fully from the beginning and following the last season that ended some months ago, which almost everybody hated but I have to confess I loved. PS: I still didn't find a place to install the patch "I believe" with the flying saucer from The X-Files, but i'm looking for a new iron (since you took yours back to the bitch when you left Montréal), and a special t-shirt to place it.        “Do you always check a ditch when you walk passed one?” 	“Check for what?” 	“Are you afraid of bodies of water in general?” 	“Hmm.. don’t think so” 	“Do you have a partner?” 	“In one way or another”	“What is that supposed to m- ” 	“Well, there is somebody I love a lot and talk to every day but I wouldn’t call my partner” 	“Alright” 	“Do you have a child?” 	“Not that I know” The questions of this morning just as easily proceeded during the talk of this afternoon. 	“We still need your report from SenseLab, will you email it shortly?” 	“Oh really? It feels so strange to capture it like that, can’t I give a slideshow or have a talk with you instead? I have a lot of pictures t- ” 	“Don’t make it to hard for yourself, just write the thing, we don’t need to see a hundred pictures” 	“Ok, alright then” 	“Oh, and could you also send the assessment from SenseLab’s part?” 	“Ehm, oh I didn’t know you needed that” 	“Yeah, we just need like a page and a grade” 	“Oh, a grade! But if the spz is gonna grade I-” 	“Just send us the page and we’ll grade it instead” That’s why I asked to at least write the page collectively. I refused to be ‘assessed’ by one person, if I never was with one person, how can one write it, I wish the spaz could just do the writing instead. This collective word file is the simplest and closest thing to it I could think of for now. 	“I thought for the second reader it could also just be under the name of the spaz, instead of one per- ”	“Oh no, it has to be a person and that person needs to have a PhD.”	“Ah ok, I think I’ll choose someone I have had sex with.”Too bad they never heard that last comment. I think I really broke my foot. I heard you can break it gradually, instead of having one instant in which the bone breaks. This is often caused of exhaustion. No wonder my left foot has decided to no longer carry me through these sad streets! This day has had a lot of interesting walking techniques already. From sliding, to hopping, to taking the elevator, walking on the toes, to walking on the heel, to making circles instead of straight lines. 	“What happened to your left foot?”	“I started sleepwalking again. A practice from the old days.”	“Do you have a hard time falling asleep at night?”	“No, but I do wake up from the nightly visitors nibbling on my toes. I guess that’s why my left foot stopped being able to hold my weight pressed on this world by the neurotypical forces. My left foot is the one closest to the window, you see.”	“Do you often experience reality in a strange way? Like you feel as if your senses alter things, or you hear or see things other people don’t.”Oh the answer to that question she liked. Whenever she likes the question I hear the sounds of her keyboard. As soon as I hear the first fingertip on the key, I quickly alter my answer. Nooo, I don’t want her to capture me this way! What if we had this talk 1 hour earlier and I would’ve felt completely different, the sun rays had entered the room on my knees instead of the tableside close to them. I see best when I hold my fingers on the side of my eyes and push the skin backwards. It is tricky to bike like that. I don’t like ghosts expressed in too human vocabularies. I’m listening to a song called The Visit. I tried to find back my notes from this afternoon and I see I didn’t write after the ones from last week, but, hop!, in the middle. It was out of the ordinary, but obvious in the nameless place. We were met in the visit. 	“Don’t you ever feel the smile on your face as a form of a self-inflicted wound?”	“Hm, well maybe after some weird social event. Like the time I met the family I had never met before but they wrote me letters for ten years. When I arrived they had a little sign saying ‘Welcome [my name] to our home!’. After all the presents and hospit(ypic)ality I felt my smile burning in my cheeks the whole ride home.” 	“Do you sometimes feel as if time moves in a way that is out of joint? Like a film in slow motion or fast forward.”	“Oh yes very often, don’t y- ”Again, the typing sounds. A ball being kicked around outside. Clothes parading on the laundry rack. 	“I am meeting someone at 10 ‘o'clock.”	“Who are you meeting? What’s the name?”	“Oh I’m not sure, I was already glad I made it here, with the ferry and the bike and the broken foot.”	“You should really come more prepared next time.”	I love this :) The questions you had to answer at the therapy remind me of the forms I had to ask while going to a psychiatric evaluation when I was younger. I wish I could find that form again. Probably it went into the trash. I'll have a look in my house during my next trip to Brazil. Right now I can't type anymore, the day was really hard on me, and a headache is here. I don't want to take painkillers because I'm trying to give a break to my liver, I figured that many years of antidepressants could be not so good for them… 	During a Saturday afternoon I found a typewriter in a cupboard in the attic. I had to get used to write with it, because I had been working on a computer. Some letters worked less well, others got stuck even before they could make an imprint on the paper. But after I while I was completely used to the ticking sound of the typewriter. Even though I had gotten quite agile, I couldn’t imagine writing an entire book on it. My typewriter had found a beautiful place in my bedroom, on the desk where the sun would shine most often. I would write on my typewriter all the time, it was a bit like a diary to me. I would stay awake the entire night to type away the darkness. At some point my parents even gave me a special room that was soundproof so that they and the neighbours wouldn’t wake up from all the typing sounds. Whenever I told my friends why I had dark circles underneath my eyes, they were astonished. “Writing?!” they would say “I only stay awake to be on my computer or ipod, but not for some dumb typewriter.”Often I felt lonely that nobody understood how I felt. Most of the people got very angry or painted to do something with all their emotions. But I just loved to hear the ticking sounds of the typewriter. It was as if I belonged with the typewriter, it was like a friend to me. It felt like I must have been a typewriter in the 