A Laboratory for Thought in Motion
When I proposed the SenseLab in 2004, my hope was to create an environment that would find out, over time, how to create conditions for new forms of collaboration across art, philosophy and activism. This laboratory for thought in motion was a speculative proposition that required collective engagement, and so a first call was sent in 2005. This call included a question that remains at the heart of our collective practice: what kinds of events can we craft that are capable of creating a living ecology that values forms of engagement that trouble the structures of presentation and exhibition. Instead of foregrounding finished work, could we instead come with the techniques that move our process, collaborate at this incipient stage rather than at the phase where form is already revealing itself? In this middling of the process, what kinds of conditions can be invented that facilitate a shifting back and forth between our individual work and an emergent collective field of making-thinking that doesn’t know in advance where it can lead? What kinds of collective practices can be created that are moved not by the institution, not by membership in an organization, but by an appetite for the anarchic share of the event’s coming to form? How can this anarchic share be oriented toward an affirmative politics that is moved not by optimism (or pessimism) but by the cut that activates process?
The SenseLab was never conceived as a site, though it has found landings over the years, first in other peoples’ labs1 and eventually at Concordia University. In 2012, it began to proliferate, finding temporary sites in Australia, in Europe and in the US, temporary because the hope is that the SenseLab never really finds out how to site. To know too well how to site is to become an institution. The SenseLab’s nightmare is to learn too well how to know itself.
But anything that persists over time risks eventually mythologizing itself, and the SenseLab is no exception. How to keep open and lively the process of subtracting SenseLab from its own singular specificity, its ways of knowing “itself”? There have been many configurations and populations over the years, and each of them has defined the SenseLab in ways that made its own techniques of experimentation intelligible. The ongoing pursuit has been to demythologize as quickly as possible and to remember, all along the way, that emergent collectivity is about more-than human comings-together, more-than human in the sense that what comes into formation as event is an ecology of practices, more-than human in the sense that what is planned is not set in advance of the event’s coming to be, but, as Fred Moten and Stefano Harney might say, “fugitively planned,” the welling event’s own emergent organization playing a key role in what comes to be.
This emphasis on the more-than human, on the capacity for the event to activate a kind of participation that doesn’t solely rely on the human, became increasingly important as the SenseLab grew and became more literate. The more we told our story, the more it became clear that we were in danger of creating a collective that could only know itself from the inside. To know oneself from the inside is to believe that the constitution of the event is directly linked to the people who are visible in its formation. But events are not like this: they are troubled and energized by affective tonalities that infiltrate their bounds, oriented by the push and pull of ecologies brought simultaneously into being. And so we started inventing techniques to make felt the proliferation of tendencies and consistencies that make up events, working hard to become attuned to forms of participation that complicate both notions of individual subjectivity and of human-centric organization.
Moving, for instance, from the forest to the city in the 2012 Generating the Impossible2 event was an attempt to feel the effects of how an environmental surround also composes and participates with the process of making-thinking. How, we wondered, would what began to take form in the forest come to expression in the city? What kinds of schisms would emerge in the dissonance of transition? Conceiving transition as key to an affirmative politics that sites in the doing, it became urgent to consider how events themselves craft bodies, how they create emergent bodyings that are composed of and compose with the ecologies of their surrounds.
The focus on the more-than human was also geared toward the challenging of the category of the personal. When the personal organizes experience, two main tendencies emerge. First, there is an infiltration of identity politics which tend to amplify not what the emergent collectivity can do, but what personal stakes are understood to be present even before the project takes form. While these personal stakes no doubt make some kind of contribution in the event, our approach is to initially background these in favour of allowing the event itself to foreground how it mobilizes political, aesthetic and philosophical questions. The second tendency of the personal is toward the creation of a therapeutic setting which brings individual narratives into the event. Privileging instead a schizoanalytic approach which is interested in the emergence of group subjectivity, we work from the perspective of what an emergent constellation can do rather than what individual participants owe the event and are owed by it. Our main point of emphasis is that the SenseLab is a project that exceeds any individual participant: the project should always be more than the sum of its parts. This is no easy task: the uncertainty of the emergent collectivity, where subjectivity is understood as immanent to the event rather than as what informs the event, inevitably breeds anxiety and anxiety tends to solidify personal stakes. How to create divergences from the positioning of the personal before it takes hold?
The Free Radical
The free radical was brought into the mix in 2012 to begin to address this question of how to work collectively with emergent subjectivity. The free radical came in the context of the event discussed above, Generating the Impossible, an event whose focus was on affective attunement and altereconomies of exchange. The free radical, as we envisaged it, would infiltrate the event’s interstices, keeping the event from hardening around positions. Operating transversally to the actual practices of making-thinking orienting the event, the free radical would operate punctually to unglue any position- taking. It would also do the work of a trickster around the inevitable personalization, creating opportunities for the event to find new orientations capable of diffusing the kind of stabilization that breeds eventual institutionalization. The hope was that the free radical, despite (and because of) its deeply unsettling tendencies, would make it possible to create a culture of affirmation that didn’t fall prey to a desire to settle the event into a culture of consensus, or its by-product, critique. Working from the perspective of the anarchy of the event, thinking anarchy both in terms of how an event anarchives (creates anarchy in the archive of its unfolding), and from the idea that an event always exceeds the bounds of prescribed spacetimes of organization, and foregrounding attunement over consensus- based decisional practices, the emphasis on altereconomies of exchange during the 10-day Generating the Impossible event included inventing new forms of participation that allow for the kind of emergent orientation that results from the event, with the collectivity this
breeds taking the lead. Affinity groups that might be capable of both incorporating and sustaining the force of free-radicality were composed long in advance of our coming together, and platforms for relation that could handle emergent dispenses and active attunement were proposed. What might a creative dissonance feel like that wasn't oriented toward critique? How would such a resonant field of experience in the making actively alter how we attended, in the event? What might attention become, under these circumstances? With the benefit of hindsight, I would say that these were early steps to developing techniques for what we have come to call minor gestures, those emergent forces of orientation that shift how an event comes to pass.
The free radical cuts across the event to open it to where else it could go. Always operative, the free radical jumps into fissures, activating their potential to create new directionalities that alter what the event can do. Affirmative and joyful, the figure is nonetheless uneasy-making in its anarchic tendencies. Its technique is to open things up, to explode them. And yet there are of course closures as new paths are taken up: there is much reorienting to do when the ground shifts. The free radical has no care for sites that claim their ground.
The SenseLab has never had membership. Membership would make the free radical a member, which would, of course, destroy its potential for intercession. The free radical must be able to become everymember, and every tendency in the event must free radicalize itself.
The issue of membership nonetheless rears its head. Despite there being no actual membership, it is inevitable that certain cultures take hold that embody a history of what it can mean to be involved at the SenseLab, which can lead to feelings of exclusion for newcomers. Uncertainty can be powerful, especially in the context of the kind of practice that is built on a certain emphasis on not-knowing-in-advance. An interesting tension
emerges. On the one hand, those who have been on the ground longer recognize that the force of inheritance does make a difference, and it is not that “anything goes.” Given our investment in a politics of affirmation in the Nietzschean sense, those of us who have been around for a while would not, for instance, be willing to live with a culture of critique and competition.3 But nor would we want to engage in a superficial acquiescing. Material, conceptual, practice-based inquiry matters to our process, and from this ongoing engagement with the details of practice much has been learned that does influence how we proceed in the face of the uncertainty of the welling event. And, as with all improvisatory practices, ours is based on technique, and some techniques have proven to be robust enough to merit reencounter. And so there is always a certain debt to the past as we explore futurities in the making. On the other hand, there is no question that leaving that space of intercession open to the newcomer is vital: very often events have been reoriented by those who enter differently precisely because they are not informed by the history of our ongoing practice. And so we have worked to hone a practice of welcoming difference, including in this event-based hospitality a care for consistency. This productive tension means that those who keep coming back become accustomed to continuously reorienting themselves to the affinities that are created with and around them. No decision-making bodies exist. Affirmation: active, not reactive. And not consensus, that most flattening of practices.
In an always shifting register of emergent collectivity, we experiment and go where the experiment takes us, casting it aside without looking back if it doesn’t do its work. We say “yes” but seek not to attend to personal stakes above what the event can do. Of course “this is how we do things” is still heard, and difference is not necessarily easy to attune to, especially in moments of stress. It is a radical proposition to remain open to new tendencies all the time. Free radicalization inevitably gets watered down by the fear of losing our footing. And yet we persist because we know that the desire for continuity, for the recognition of the past in the present, is a real danger as regards the ability to remain attuned to the differential at the heart of event-based organizing.
This is a challenge all activist formations face. How to keep the edges open to the elements in ways that enliven those in the midst without creating such a strong tempest of uncertainty that collaborators drift away or collapse? How to build into the inevitable sociality that emerges over time enough porousness that it remains open to fray? For it is only in the fray that new weaves are visible.
The SenseLab lives with all of these contradictions. We often contend with failure, our tendencies for making the event in our own image persistently compelling. The transitions are messy and, despite a decade-long investment in the passages between process and a commitment to emergent constellations, there remains a tendency to either overvalue process (as though process and form were not inextricably linked) or to rush into a kind of form-taking that is led by external evaluative criteria. Growing pains are deep and often agonizing.
Immediation
Our current event series is called Immediations. With the force of the free radical active as intercessor, and a close attention to the way the minor gesture affects the ecologies out of which the event is made, this series4 asks how else the event can tell its story? What kinds of knowledges are alive in the event and how are they passed on? How can we move beyond mediation, or reporting, in the passage from force to form? How can we compose collectively, working both with past and emergent techniques, without holding fast to the security of habits, material or conceptual? How do we differentiate between the necessary close encounter with materials and concepts, that encounter that allows us, over time, to become even more attuned to their potential, and the fear of trying something different? While finding ways to narrate experience, how do we refrain from mythologizing it? How can the immediacy of the event cut through the certainty of a certain belonging-together? How can the anarchic share of an emergent collectivity based on appetite make itself felt without falling into the kinds of social camps facilitated by narratives of exclusion? How can an event mark its punctuation in an account that continues the work of the event?
Immediation is a technique more than it is a descriptor. It is what moves the event into another register. A politics of fabulation invariably accompanies it, a fabulation that resists organizing the telling of the event into the kind of consumable bite-sized description that would narrate it as a linear arc. The attempt is to become more attuned to the differences between those kinds of narratives that hold the event hostage and those that continue to breed openings. It’s not that these more normative narratives don’t enter the world: they do. Our task is to craft the conditions for events that resist this kind of telling, opting instead for a fabulation that undermines the very question of an event’s localization in a single place, activating not the truth of a myth framed by the collective, but its power of the false, as Deleuze might say—the power of the event to claim its falsification from itself. With the power of the false, time begins to err, undermining the imposition of continuity. Time as metric is disrupted, but not just that: time folds.
The free radical activates the power of the false in the event. Acting as intercessor,5 it cuts into what is moving the event and opens that movement to uneasy rhythms. These rhythms are uneasy because their paths are not yet drawn, and because these paths are both synchronous and dissonant, more multiplicity of cut than site. The free radical pushes against them to feel where else they can lead.
What the free radical can do is make appear a minor tendency in the event and move that tendency into a becoming-gesture that shape-shifts the tonality of the event. The free radical does this by activating a schism in the event. This practice of schizoanalysis involves setting the event’s myth-making orientations in direct confrontation with their power of the false, making felt the story’s own unmaking of itself. With the power of the false a sense of what else enters the event, allowing the contours of a still-transitioning to be felt. The challenge is to not try to make this passage, this transition too intelligible. Its force is precisely that it cannot be organized into an all-encompassing narrative. The work: to create the conditions for enough elasticity in the event for the story to emerge again differently, told not only in words but also in the language of the ineffable. “Language ... is always ambiguous as to the exact proposition which it indicates. Spoken language is merely a series of squeaks” (Whitehead 1978: 264).
Fabulation tells in a way that moves with time’s unweaving. Sensitive to the squeaks of language, to language at the edge of comprehension, fabulation is moved less by the necessity to explain the event, than by the realization, always come to anew, that telling is a form of liveness completely connected to the event’s own emergence. This telling cannot be separated out from how its narration shifts the terms of the event. Stories become intensive magnitudes rather than extensive place-holders. They tell at the limit of what can be known, their work a falsifying of what constitutes the knowable. This falsification is not of the order of a simple untruth: the power of the false is never about the true or the false per se. It is about another kind of truth altogether, a truth of the event in its inevitable permutation. Fabulation speaks in the mouths of the many, its utterance collective. “An act of fabulation which would not be a return to myth but a production of collective utterances capable of raising misery to a strange positivity, the invention of a people” (Deleuze 1989: 222).
This push to invention that is alive in the immediacy of the event can be textured by fabulation in ways that allow the event to do its work in novel ways. When this happens, fabulation acts as point of inflection, foregrounding the kind of vertigo in the event that emerges of necessity when perspective becomes transitional and the time- signature of the event begins to blur. Fabulation connects to this blurring, pushing futurity into presentness in ways that allow time to become dechronologized. Mediation is not what is at stake here: the task of the mediator is precisely to keep the horizon line. Fabulation does the opposite: it mobilizes the not-yet already alive in the interstices and makes it resonate. It catches free radicals at work, activating a worlding that keeps us uncertain as to where the points of reference lie. It articulates a doing in the thinking that makes felt how stories do the work of falsifying time’s linearity.
The power of the false, the capacity for the event to undermine what a personalized accounting might want to invent as the event’s truth, is deeply unsettling. Much easier would be to formalize the norms of an event-practice and to critique it from the outside. Or, as suggested above, to create myths that solidify it from the inside. Both of these tendencies undermine the very practice of what an event can do and what a more-than human approach can catalyze. Much more difficult, but also richer, is to engage directly in the event’s interstices, in those cuts where desynchronized truths are temporarily crafted
for the uneasy telling. “Fabulation is not an impersonal myth, but neither is it a personal fiction: it is a word in act, a speech-act through which the character never ceases to cross the boundary which would separate his private business from politics, and which itself produces collective utterances” (Deleuze 1989: 222, translation modified).
To not cease to cross involves a punctuality. The event never ceases to create a limit through which a certain telling takes place that produces a collectivity of utterance. That is to say: the event invariably narrates itself. But it does so not necessarily in the form of spoken language. The event tells itself in the ways in which it composes with the ecologies of practices that are its emergent surrounds. It tells itself in its reorienting by the free radical. It tells itself in the ways in which it transitions and cuts. For the event transitions more than it places, passaging experience. In this passaging, a “people” is invented, Deleuze suggests, a worlding that is more-than the humans who also compose it. With fabulation, this worlding opens itself again, differently, to the passaging. This is where the event, as Whitehead might say, most feels the concern for its unfolding.6 This is where the event emergently attunes to the worlds of its making. Fabulation makes felt this worlding, this ecology, which will always, by necessity, exceed its capacity to be told. The telling itself is a punctual limit, altered at every turn by what the event immediates.
Tigeresque
In November 2014, a SenseLab gathering was organized in Australia. It was composed of two propositions, one held north of Melbourne in the rural town of Avoca, one held in Sydney. The first proposition was made in conjunction with Lyndal Jones’
The Avoca Project (2005–) works across a community, a house (Watford House), and the question of sustainability as oriented by how an artful approach can alter the conditions of everyday living. How, Jones wondered, might the house become an image of potential and resilience? And would repairing the house have effects that might leak into the community?8
The SenseLab arrived at the end of this process, a decade into Avoca's transformation. The proposition was to see how our approach to creating conditions for more-than human forms of collaboration might compose with the Avoca Project. By then the final phase of the Avoca Project had occurred: the building of a Chinese garden in the old sheep yards next to the house. Described by Jones as a project that “draws attention to the lack of public gardens in Avoca ... and acknowledges the important Chinese contribution to the town from the 1850’s, when many thousands settled in the area after the gold rush,” the garden, entitled “Garden of Fire and Water,” punctuates a decade-long inquiry into sustainability by designing directly with the underground flows of water. This self-sustaining garden underscores “that to live-with is an ethos that requires attending to the existing sites of potential,” signing the Avoca Project with a final act that will continue to make sustainability in the region felt, even without direct human intervention.9
The garden is exquisite. It overlooks the flood plain and Avoca river, foregrounding the role of water in this arid town. “The central water element has been created as a wetland that cleans and uses the stormwater from the main street. Plants were selected that directly reference China and thrive in this climate, framed within indigenous and native plantings to situate the garden firmly into this landscape of River Red Gums.”10
The SenseLab arrival coincided with the launch of the garden. The only directions we received in advance of our arrival was that we were to bring formal wear: there would be a cocktail party for the garden. In true SenseLab form, we saw ourselves as hosts to the garden: how might we enter into the Avoca Project with an attention to our guest of honour: the surround. No other plans had been set: the question of the event was the operative problem. Could the SenseLab encounter The Avoca Project such that an event might take place? And if so, would the event be capable of bringing into focus an emergent proposition that could be a host to a process that would include us even while it exceeded us?
To approach the question of event-constitution rigorously involves a long preparation. This preparation is not about planning content in advance, as though the activity could be focalized through a pre-set frame. That would be to disregard the force of the event's own capacity to orient experience. What is needed instead is a procedure allied to planning as used by Fred Moten and Stefano Harney in The Undercommons. Planning, for Moten and Harney, is about creating ways to align to the work already underway. “In the undercommons ... the means, which is to say the planners, are still part of the plan. And the plan is to invent the means in a common experiment launched from any kitchen, any back porch, any basement, any hall, any park bench, any improvised party, every night.... [P]lanning in the undercommons is not an activity, not fishing or dancing or teaching or loving, but the ceaseless experiment with the futurial presence of the forms of life that make such activities possible” (2013: 74-75).
At the SenseLab, a key technique for approaching this kind of fugitive planning involves experimenting with what we call “enabling constraints.” For a year preceding any event, we work to test out the malleability of constraints, exploring to what degree they close down or open up a process. Enabling constraints proposed might include ways of entering into the unknown territory of a new vegetation—this might involve research on local flora and fauna, animal and insect life, research on ecologies of practice, on concepts such as the more-than or the nonhuman, on local environmental practices, on artwork produced in the area or committed to similar concerns. To keep this at the level of the fugitive, and to work with the force of the propositional rather than with the framing of a task, our year-long work is more a guide than a setting-into-place. For what we know of the event is that it modulates on the run, and with this incipient movement, enabling constraints also have to be modulated. Fugitive planning is about creating a flexibility of thought and action which is robust enough to be able to be realigned on the fly. It’s never a question of importing an enabling constraint from one event to another, but more a honing of a practice of creating techniques and experimenting with what kinds of constraints enable or disable a welling event.
Despite rigorous exploration in advance of landing, however, nothing had really prepared us for the uneasy way The Avoca Project disoriented us. It turned out the cocktail party was for the locals, not for the garden (but of course also for the garden, just not in the sense we’d fabulated). And the house seemed to know where it stood. The jetlag didn’t help. Here we were, 35 of us, faced with a project difficult for us to get to know in such a short period. Paradoxes loomed: there was a sense, conceptually at least, that Watford
House welcomed an intercession toward new ways of thinking sustainability. But there was also a sense that we had arrived too late—that this particular arc of Watford House and The Avoca Project had run its cycle, including the garden, which was now ready to be presented. Another arc was on its way, but here we were, at its interstice, unsure how to compose with it.
We didn't want to be visitors to a project already framed yet didn’t have techniques to adequately sense the ineffability of the emerging arc. What we thought would be enabling constraints turned out to be disabling. We wandered around, at a loss. Part of the problem was that things were more set than we had imagined—the house was beautifully appointed, much more “house” than “studio” and the surround was well maintained, already well-established in relation to a town that had now been interacting with the work for a decade. Despite our not wanting the position, we were visitors, tourists. Paradoxically, this was Jones’ nightmare: more than once she told us that she didn’t want us to see Watford House as a bed and breakfast. She wanted us to be free in our approach to it, she wanted us to invent with it. But it was a house that had well-established needs and habits. Jones knew its functioning better than we did, and she knew the environment in ways that tired Canadians and Europeans couldn’t possibly know. And so despite best intentions, the encounter began with frames, and with rules. The rules made sense, and were necessary, given the complex water systems of an arid location, but to begin with rules always sets in place a certain passive-active hierarchy. Passivity, once settled into the weave of a gathering, is hard to overcome, dampening the force of the kind of potential necessary for the emergence of a collectivity created in the event.
An impasse could be felt. A certain waiting took hold. Would we be able to move beyond being visitors to being participants in a process? Would something emerge that was more than the sum of its parts? Activities were proposed by a number of us—
movement experimentation, sound propositions, conceptual discussions. We followed and participated. Wonderful meals were cooked. But mediation still trumped immediation. Time felt linear. People were on call, waiting to be told what would happen next. Was this the kind of waiting that would be capable of being potentialized or had the potential been sapped? The first two days were dominated by scattered gatherings made interesting by the skill of the leaders. We learned things, we talked, we explored. Individual projects were seeded. There was joy in being together. New friendships began to form. But there was not yet a sense that something with its own consistency was being generated, something capable of weaving Avoca through it and moving The Avoca Project and SenseLab toward a collaboration that would affect both in ways unexpected. There was some despair. And with the cocktail party approaching, there was some anxiety about where to move next.
A group gathered at the local pub began to fabulate. The Avoca Project, the group decided, had a story—it just didn't know how to tell it. Or, it knew how to tell a certain version of it, that version which makes intelligible human-centred acts. What it didn’t know how to tell was how the deeper recesses of more-than human activity were capable of affecting it. This story that the project couldn’t tell was the story of time itself, and of how time and ecology co-compose. The Chinese Garden, we decided, was key. This garden which could stem flows and capture them for its sustainability had a story to tell about how geological time composes with event-time. And we would stage an investigation to find out what it knew.
For the six of us around the table, the promise of a fabulatory investigation was immediately a release from the concern which had been clouding our experience: now, rather than fitting into a project already defined, we could initiate a joyful encounter with what else Avoca and Watford House and the Chinese Garden could be. Certain characters
emerged: the fish (what was the link between the fish tank in Watford house and the fish brought by a resident of Avoca to the cocktail party?), the possum (what kinds of skylines were the possums creating and how far were they willing to go to create new navigational strategies?), the tunnel (what kind of underground passage did the water flows create and how might these connect Avoca to other worlds?) We spoke to villagers. We checked with each other. We spoke to Jones. No one took us very seriously.
But another kind of perception had been awakened, and now some of us were seeing fish everywhere. On the day before our time at Avoca was to end, with fish on the brain, a few of us decided we needed to return to conceptual exploration. A spontaneous reading group was organized around Brian Massumi's book What Animals Teach Us About Politics. This hadn’t been planned, but it turned out that several of the participants happened to have the newly published book in their luggage. We decided to begin by reading a passage out loud (for those who didn't have the book) and go from there. This was the passage:
Think of a child playing the animal. It is certainly easy to sentimentalize the scene. But what if we take it seriously— that is, look to the aspects of it that are truly ludic in the most creative sense. Simondon writes that the child’s consciousness of the animal involves far more than the simple recognition of its substantial form. One look at a tiger, however fleeting and incomplete, whether it be in the zoo or in a book or in a film or video, and presto! the child is tigerized. Transformation-in-place. The perception itself is a vital gesture. The child immediately sets about, not imitating the tiger’s substantial form as he saw it, but rather giving it life— giving it more life. The child plays the tiger in situations in which the child has never seen a tiger. More than that, it plays the tiger in situations no tiger has ever seen, in which no earthly tiger has ever set paw. The child immediately
launches itself into a movement of surpassing the given, remaining remarkably faithful to the theme of the tiger, not in its conventionality but from the angle of its processual potentiality.
Remaining processually faithful to a vital theme has nothing to do with reproducing it. On the contrary, it involves giving it a new interpretation, in the musical sense of performing a new variation on it. The child does not imitate the visible corporeal form of the tiger. It prolongs the tiger’s style of activity, transposed into the movements of the child’s own corporeality. What the child caught a glimpse of was the dynamism of the tiger, as a form of life. The child saw the tiger’s vitality affect: the potentially creative powers of life enveloped in the visible corporeal form. The tiger’s vitality affect passes through what a formal analysis might isolate as its corporeal form. But it never coincides with that visible form. The life’s powers that come to expression through the form’s deformations sweep the form up within their own supernormal dynamism, which moves through the given situation, toward others further down the line. This transsituational movement is in excess over the form. It is the very movement of the visually given form’s processual self-surpassing. This is what the child saw— all of it, in a glimpse; all in a flash. Not just a generic animal shape: a singular vital movement sweepingly immanent to the visible form. What children see: the immanence of a life. Not “the” tiger: tigritude. Children do not just catch sight of a tiger form. They have an intuitively aesthetic vision of the tigeresque as a dynamic form of life. It is this they transpose when they play animal. Not onto their own form but into their own vital movements....
Across the serial variations, tigritude begins to escape. It begins to surpass given situations in which we might reasonably expect a tiger to find itself, and the modes of
importance those situations present. The tensions of tigeresque corporeality in- forms the childlike corporeality in play. It immanently animates it— and is animated by it in return. The replay series stretches out the tigeresque tensions, prolonging them into a transindividual tensor. The situational tensions put into play undergo an inventively deforming pressure that vectorizes them in the direction of the supernormal. Tigritude takes flight. The givens of the tigeresque situation, as conventionally known, are surpassed, following exploratory tensors extrapolating from the child’s enthusiasm of the body (Massumi 2014: 86).
Animals were emerging everywhere—fish, possums, and now the enthusiasm of the body activated by a tigeresque encounter with a book. The fish, the possum, and now the tiger were not, as Massumi makes clear, given forms, but forces, vitality affects. The emerging investigation, and now the collective reading, was not bringing them, as animals, to life, but activating experience in a way that it might now be capable of becoming transsituational, in excess of this moment, of this form. The Avoca Project was becoming self-surpassing. Of course all this was still very tenuous, but the seeds for it were there. Which is why one reading could not be enough: the next and last day we decided to return to the passage again, despite being very short on time.
By now tigeresque was making its way into the weave of the event, and with it, a sense of potential. Something was happening, something was doing. And then, a strange event occurred. In the midst of the discourse of sustainability, someone decided to paint the desert lawn bright orange with these words: “To avoid predetermination create a field with at least three elements.” The spray paint graffiti—an engagement with the tigeresque quality of the more-than in Massumi's text—sought to highlight the necessity of emergent
collectivity, but it did so at grave risk. The landscape we left behind was scarred and would remain so until the next rains, a year in Watford House's future.
The orange spray paint didn’t quite register. To this day, I'm not sure why. We were busy, the event hadn’t quite taken place and the time spent together had been difficult—interesting and even joyful at times, but heavy with misunderstandings and uneasy encounters. There was laundry to do, and cleanup, and the grounds were large. Many of us walked by the large expanse of bright orange words, but somehow no one really reacted. Until we were gone.
It was an hour or so into the drive toward Melbourne that someone in the car with us mentioned the grass, and the orange spray paint. We gasped. Surely this hadn't been a good idea? But if it did happen, it must have been condoned? I felt uneasy.
A few hours later, the first text message arrived. I could feel the rawness. And I knew the risk of answering: the event, still uneasily coming into itself, could too easily be reduced to the personal. The desire to single out an individual and blame them for the act was powerful, even in the wake of a gathering that had had collectivity and collaboration as its aim. What would an apology mean in this context? Wouldn’t an inevitable hierarchy be introduced through the act of taking charge, as though the event happened in my name?
As I was thinking this through, I received a note from the investigation. It read:
Fishy Business November 26, 2014
Regarding other fishy business ... It was such a well-designed urgency to get to the kangaroos on Tuesday night that I fear that I was unable to clearly tell of all that I uncovered. I feel that Mayra might come to know more and Indira, as a very fruitful sleuth, can certainly find more. Justy hasn’t drawn yet ... I feel sure that she should in some way. Adele definitely knows something, but whether we can access any more is
unclear after she made that stealthy escape on Tuesday afternoon ... perhaps it will be more possible at another time. Mick and Diego seem to be of the few that know something about the part that the fire plays in how the fish behave. There might be some connection here with what Grant knows about the current pond semblance in the garden. Pia also knows something about this otherness of the pond ... she is most definitely holding back information. I too am suspicious of the architects ... they are very consumed by the taking of measurements and spinning stories about cloaks. I had one of them in the car on the way home but I couldn't detect any deviation within the story to catch them in the act ... my jury is still out. There is something going on with those possums ... however, when one was scratching at the back of my tent it was pretending to be a wombat, then a kangaroo, not a fish ... I suspect it may be yet another diversionary tactic!
There are a couple of anomalies that I stumbled upon... how Joel knew about the fish being flying fish is beyond me. Likewise with Andrew ... he knew that the fish ate the Chinese. Perhaps Andrew has been informed through some pragmatic instructions (bequeathed recipes?) for the preparation of the fish meals ... if this is the case, the usefulness of this information is likely to be questionable so further effort here may not be worthwhile.
Mattie holds the key ... she, and Bea, are the only ones who have properly experienced the “vortex” (for want of a better word ... I don't think there is a word for it in English), although we did sense its pull ourselves in the dining room. Bea knows it best and Mattie has spoken to her about it. Mattie is also the next person to return in December so she will be able to speak further with Bea then. Mattie’s expertise is in finding and manipulating the “spot” ... only she can do this. Mattie also said there was a “hole” where
the orange tent was as well as where Adele’s tent was. Indira knows about this too. I'm attaching the image of the tent city in case this turns out to be key information. I wonder about the position of the tents in regard to Pia’s drawing ... this could be an important drawing since she performed the sketching in a slightly intoxicated haze, without her glasses, in dim lighting conditions. It might be the only time when her guard was down, although she refused to add anything to the drawing the next day. I can’t be certain, but I feel that she wants to disregard it, or hopes that I do ... she kept telling me that she didn't have her glasses on, perhaps to throw me off from seeing its significance? There are lots of sneaky contrivances in the tent area by the way. Pia tried to divert our attention to the white tower near the gate close to the garden. The rocks right near Adele's tent are just rocks too. A funny thing about the tents though ... Lyndal told us the “good places” to pitch our tents. Perhaps her guard was down at this point? The tents were difficult to pitch too ... there was a lot of wind that fought against the tents.
This is all that I managed to gather over the few days in Avoca. I hope that it is helpful and that we might finally uncover and understand what has really been going on at the house and garden. One last detail I noticed is the difference between orange fish and fish of other colours. The fish on the bag is green ... and remember we were not sure how the actual real fish appear.
Cheers and all the best,
Tania
The answer was clear: rather than dealing with the text message directly,
responding one-on-one to a group issue, a collective response was called for. I decided to open up the investigation. This was the first message sent. 18 people were copied.
The Investigation Nov 27, 2014
Dear co-investigators,
I’ve put this list together carefully. I think there are a few missing. Mattie? Indira? Aphra? I’ll trust you to know where to send it next.
I’ve had a studied report from Tania. Since some of it is confidential, I will only touch on the salient issues.
We’ve left Avoca.
Orange spray paint may contaminate the soil in the guise of philosophy (or was philosophy left to contaminate?) We fear this may have repercussions. Is Celine a double agent?
The green fish has turned into an outline. There is a strong memory of its greenness. Fish meal still seems to be a strong clue.
Mattie said twice that Bea was no longer there. The vortex is awfully close (and yet she guards the fish).
If the fish are the outline, the semblance is near.
The tunnel entrances seem to have been masked by the tents. I’ve seen a picture. It’s possible that you will get access to that image. Adele holds a clue.
Mattie again: she finds the holes.
Why is Pia measuring? Pia, I’ve included you here, though there is some concern about whose side you’re on. Architects are very suspect in this scenario of dissimulated gardens and covered-up tunnels. We will need a copy of the architectural plans.
Sam, after investigative reporting, you have come out more Australian than Chinese. This makes you a fish, I think. We’re keeping you onboard for now. I know you think you are a meerkat. We’re not sure where you are going with this. Please elaborate.
Something about Diego, Mick and fire. I wonder whether Ronald isn’t also implicated. I’d like to hear more. And about rabbits. Did Lyndal think eating them would make them less of a pest in Australia? Is there a parallel with the Chinese?
For now, Lyndal must be treated with caution. She knows more than she admits.
Erin
And then, the next day, with 8 more people copied, but 2 deleted:
Incoming Cargo Nov 28, 2014
Investigation #11
I am opening up the investigation a bit. Have heard from my co-investigator that some of the details can now be leaked.
1. Justy: imPOSSible defense??? Is that what you've been working at for the past year? I am seriously concerned about both the absence of goldfish in your writing (who were you trying to fool) and the fact that you actually thought this defense could happen on dry land. It’s time to come clean. Diego: thanks for the clues. Good that you're onto her.
2. As I mentioned in the last message (investigation #8), we've done quite a lot of close scrutiny of the facts, and Sam comes up clean (though in the discussion tonight with Andrew and Lone, it was pretty much established as a given that she's at least a double agent). Double is of course a semblance.
3. We still haven't gotten to the bottom of the disabling of sustainability through orange. Is that to bring back the goldfish?
4. I've heard something about the bottom of tents. It's worrying as concerns the vortex. Why hasn’t Mattie been added to this list?
5. Sydney seems to be part of the vortex. Or the semblance. Am investigating further.
6. 3 clues in images. Note the mesh (boat?) hanging from the bridge.
8. Very concerned about Andrew, who tried to steer my attention from the mesh. Everyone just turns directly toward the Sydney opera house (I know better). Got a bit of his eyes, but was reluctant to take the glasses off.
9. Is that the ark?
Erin
The next day:
Incoming Cargo Nov 29, 2014
I can still feel the delicate brushing of goldfish fins and tails against my cheeks. They have a strange attunement with my heart flutters. Despite appearances I haven’t left the Avoca vortex. Jondi knows this and is helping me not get sucked in too deeply and drown. That is the real reason he had to stay in Melbourne. Aphra is making sure that the tunnel has wi-fi, and through her angelic connection she utters revealing philosophical statements that help me think into staying afloat.
Erin—we know that you are pretending to know little about this vortex tunnel, but it became clear as I measured up the House that you have at least one fishing line tied to your finger that traces out its turbulence. I am guessing you want us to admit what we know before you confess. There are many lines that I measured up, and not all of them were perceptible by the laser measuring device.
Tania and Adele have other antennae—Tania’s is organic, Adele's is elastic. Each has different insights. Tania’s slips under tents and feels out what they hide, but she doesn’t seem ready to tell us everything. Perhaps she is crafting a new escape hole? I think Adele knows the cure for Celine’s contaminating paint, which is making the tunnel smell fluorescent, like a blinding light up my nostrils. Adele: please help.
Bea is with me in the vortex, and I can tell you that she has a special connection with the blind white tower, which played a major role in past Avoca fabulations. She retreats there on occasion, half way between the Chinese garden and the House, to do some measuring up. Her plan is beautifully simple. Bea tells me that the possums are indeed staying in contact with Lucy, who has her own very special connection into the vortex tunnel. Keep a wide eye on her Andrew.
In the vortex with the fish, Bea, and the possums, I can now reveal that there is also a giraffe. Sam is channeling the meerkat. Will they arrive soon, Sam? I think they could have something to tell about the giraffe. Justy knows something about a winking tiger, and I am expecting to find out more about this on Monday.
I get the sense that Brian’s feathers in the Chinese garden have something to tell us about a wise bird somewhere in the vortex. I have been trying to get my chicken to help me trace the bird-esque, as we vortex together in the garden, but she was quite busy listening to earwigs.
Yesterday Chris and Scott led the way to a clue that has gone by unnoticed: the logs. Two massive logs out the front of the House. Lyndal is the double of the Log Lady, and speaks the logs’ giant, doubled up words. As the Log Lady said in episode 8 of Twin Peaks:
“Can you see through a wall? Can you see through human skin? X-rays see through solid, or so-called solid objects. There are things in life that exist, and yet our eyes cannot see them. Have you ever seen something . . . that others cannot see? Why are some things kept from our vision?”
Now think about how that statement might be doubled! Lyndal has good reason for not revealing everything.
After some investigative work this morning I discovered that Mattie is also called Martha. She is a double agent to be sure, and may be essential to this investigative trail. I think she knows about the flutters of the fish, and her deep micro-attention to connective tissue is very much required.
Could it be that the vortex is not only full of creatures, but is the very creature we all need to know? As Csenge said, I had a premonition of the vortex before we arrived at Avoca: The House the Vortex Built, was already in my mind. The goldfishy flutters in my heart might be the hole I need to measure up before I can offer any more clues.
Pia
A few missives later, now 42 responses in, many of them arriving in the nonlinear swirl only gmail conversations can create.
Incoming Cargo Nov 29, 2014
Oh no. More fish? What is this about green fish?
I couldn't help overreading so I have to point out the following.... Those fish were clearly orange (apart from the four almost invisible small black ones ... and one is already beginning to change colour I notice....) For me it was all orange and now it is the seepage
of orange that remains....
So there are the fish. Well, I still see orange despite this mention of green. And then there is the striped orange of the tiger as you noted Justy, the one who moved into the balcony room on Tuesday and now refuses to leave. Little Bea, who is entirely at home lying with the fish seems also comfortable hanging out in this tigeresque space. More animals she seems to be saying. We need better representation amongst the 64 long legs in the forests of the night.
Don't you think that is a strange coincidence? 64 legs. Because “64” was already there on every door before those 64 legs appeared. It was the long orangy-reddy stripe on the doors. Did you see it? The sign “64: Before Completion”? (I didn't like to mention it but, talking of “before completion,” those slices of fish that suddenly appeared in the kitchen, then on our plates, were altogether too close to orange in their pinkness. I did go in and count and was relieved to find that all eight were still there in the other room, swimming easily. Phew. I don’t think they knew what was going on.
And then in the hardness of midday there is orange all over the ground on the struggling grass apron in front of the house. I’m relieved to read that some of you also noticed it. Hard to decipher though, hard to know what it is doing there. Some strange message of pain that has seeped up from China perhaps. One day when it rains later next year, it will wash away I think. Or perhaps it will burn to bare earth if the whole house is consumed by the orange of summer fire before the bell can be rung and we desperately count people at the gate. We will need 64 long legs, four short ones, many fins. Pia, does that measuring device count legs as well?
The tiger will not be counted of course. It will simply refuse to leave, that tiger, even though it knows well enough about the call of the bell. It stays, entirely comfortable, up there in the balcony room. The possums, however, are wary. As they should be. To make sure they realize this is a new dispensation, stones have been thrown against the tiny orange flames that bring them out of the shadows. And there is the smell of urine still there as a declaration of war.
And the hard-orange of the pomegranate blossoms suddenly seen in a back garden now without weeds, and the yellowy-orange of the much-desired mango that appeared right at the end. So, of course there must also be double agents (which changes the leg count Pia) for all this to have occurred. And perhaps a vortex or two. Anything is possible. Everything has changed.
Lyndal
And so it continued, from November 26 to December 4, investigators added and withdrawn, writing not only from Australia but also from Berlin, and Montreal, 90 pages in all. Everything had changed, as the November 29 message announced. Something else had begun to happen, and with it, an event was taking form.
The investigation that became the fabulation was never really interested in the past. It was interested in creating a time that could compose with futurities in the making. To create an event, these futurities must be there in germ. When we arrived at Avoca, there wasn’t yet in the collective a sensitivity to how else the project could expose itself, how
else it could be known. As is often the case, the stark presentness of a strange encounter took precedence over its fissures of futurity. None of us really knew where to look, and how to compose with what we might feel lurking in the interstices between garden and house, house and village, past and future. We did what we felt drawn toward: someone created an architectural plan of the house; a few people cleared the garden of weeds; some cooked and cleaned; some prepared a site for peeing into mason jars to steer the possums away from the fruit trees; some visited the garden and the surrounds; some went for a walk along the flood plain; some spoke to villagers; some sat at the pub; some skyped home; some slept. It is the fabulation that finally did the work of shifting the gathering toward an emergent collectivity, making it an event. It did so in the act, in the writing itself, capturing us in a middling of expression where the anguish of the orange schism and all that it carried could be addressed by other means. While names were used in the text as it moved across the network, there was a sense of the impersonal—all voices made a difference, as they do in investigations. Even a missive from Berlin from some who had no idea where exactly Avoca was could make a difference.
Alert: International Investigation Now Open 2 Dec, 2014
2. Dispatch from the closer past. Have googled “Avoca investigation” and am relieved to hear I was not “cleared of” the Avoca investigation.... I was nowhere near Kendalls Road in Avoca on June 13, 2013. Nor was I anywhere near Avoca! I had not realized you were visiting a criminal metropolis down there: “Bundaberg Police are investigating the suspicious death of a man at Avoca. Officers were called to Kendalls Road where the body of a man was located around 6:30am this morning. Kendalls Road is currently closed to all traffic and pedestrians between Bundaberg-Childers Road and
Grace Street. No further information is available at this time” (though it was later the same day determined to not be suspicious) but this more recently is quite concerning!
“Bundaberg police are asking residents in the Avenell Heights and Avoca areas to be vigilant following an increase in graffiti and willful damage offences. Police are investigating after a number of offences involving the use of spray paint which have been reported in the past five days. Store owners are also asked to take note of unusual sales or thefts of spray paint. If you are able to assist police with their investigations contact Bundaberg police on 4153 9111” http://www.news-mail.com.au/news/increase-in- graffiti/2471233/
Rett
Fabulations begin in the immediating middle. Here, where time bends, it doesn’t matter that the graffiti mentioned above happened a year and a half before the fluorescent orange took hold of Avoca. What matters what the narrative can do. This is the power of the false, the capacity for narrative to shift the very ground of experience.
The fabulation followed us to Sydney, where the second SenseLab proposition— this one focused on knots of thought and experimenting with the minor gesture—was moving toward becoming an event. Many people now gathered had not been to Avoca, but still the fabulation, printed on large pieces of paper and taped to the wall, accompanied us for the next 8 days as we worked in the large UNSW Art and Design gallery. Few people read it as a whole, but its presence did make a difference, particularly as we collectively tried to give voice to our uneasiness about how narratives are made—the demonstrations for Michael Brown’s death were happening simultaneously in Ferguson.

The telling is an event, and its capacity to impersonalize is key, even (and perhaps especially) in the cases where it feels most urgent to attach the event to the personal. This tension between the personal and the impersonal was felt keenly in the wake of the grass graffiti. Despite the fabulation’s gaining momentum, and its growing ability to reorient the field, some participants nonetheless felt that the individual who painted the grass should apologize for what was considered by some to be a violent act, and, when she resisted making the act her own, blamed her for not taking responsibility. What is missing in this account, it seems to me, is the force of the enthusiasm of the body, the tigritude, that was moved to paint orange, that was moved to schism the event. For the painted grass was the cut, the schizz that allowed the schizoanalytic gesture of the fabulation to take place.
It is noteworthy that the words the spray paint highlighted were never returned to. Despite the force of the fabulation, the marked landscape was remembered by those who blamed the individual only as a scar. What this reaction neglected was that the writing called for nothing less than that multiplicity orient the field. This wasn’t a personal act, and this is what the fabulation, despite a great uneasiness, was able to make apparent. The orange had already been seeping long before the spray-paint foregrounded it. What the words did was orient the orange, move the orange tigeresquely toward fish and fire, toward tents and Bea the dog, toward the vortex and 64 legs and pomegranate flowers and mangoes, not all of them orange, but all of them carried by its spell. The fabulation activated the vortex, opening the breach toward a creative limit where new worlds could be inhabited. The fabulation made it possible for the collective to begin to emerge as collective. It immediated collectivity, transforming personal stakes into the fraught field of collaborative potential.
Collectivity extends beyond a moment in time, though not necessarily in the guise
of the individuals who populated it. This was the strength of the Avoca project and its fabulation: that it lived on, reinventing itself in the passage of a time more durational than chronological. A year later, returning to Australia, I met with Lyndal. It was time, we decided, to return to our collaborator, Watford House, and to see what it had been able to do. The conversation was tentative. Had the Avoca Project benefitted as much as the SenseLab? Had the politics of fabulation and its immediating power also made a difference for the Avoca Project, or did the orange simply leave a scar that spoke of non- attunement and difference?
The story began to fabulate once more as we listened to each other, alive in the knowledge that we were both speaking as intercessors to a participation alive with the more-than human, and a group-subject always in transformation. This was a rich conversation, a real attunement. And in the event of this exchange, which happened over several days, with many rebeginnings, we heard the story once more. And it had morphed, always already different that what would ever, what could ever have been known by all.
It was not a scar. The rain washed away the paint that had never, it turns out, been spray-paint, but water-soluble marker paint. And in the end, the actual graffiti seemed less important than the agony of collaborating with forces that exceeded us. And so the orange words were not what was left behind so much as what activated a return. Their schism would always be a schism in time. A memory of orange, of turmoil, of writerly composition, of a tentative encounter with the fragility at the heart of all collective actions. What was left burning through the soil, on the Avoca landscape, was not so much, in retrospect at least, the writing on the grass, but the sense of not having been able to rise to the occasion. But, like all fabulations, nothing we will ever say will have been quite true. So perhaps it is important to end with this one last image, one that was kept from me at the time because of my horror of snakes.
For months before our arrival at Avoca, I worried about snakes. Lyndal, like all those I ask, promised me that snakes were actually quite shy and would be unlikely to show themselves. I wasn’t convinced: everywhere I go these animals who horrify me at the most nonconscious level seem to appear to greet me, to my snake-lover-friends’ delight.
I didn't see a snake at Avoca. But it turns out a snake did appear, camouflaged in our trace, standing guard at the entry to the house. The day after we left, a tiger snake was seen resting amidst the orange stripes of the lawn. Snake and stripe, tigeresque. The more- than human in all its animality, lingering in the n+1 of the field’s incessant necessity for more.
The politics of fabulation is this capacity to make felt the force of immediation at its most impersonal limit. The fabulation at Avoca was not “about” anything, not the orange “spray” paint or even the tiger-snake-fish that marked the passage of our disappearance. The politics of fabulation is with the event’s welling, it continued welling, with the schizz. Without the schizz there is no event, and it was the orange that schizzed the fabulation into motion. A fabulation’s content can never be seen as limited to the story itself—fabulation is the affective field that makes writing possible, that brings thinking into act. In a political register, this suggests that there is potential in fabulation to get beyond the kind of narration that holds things in place, for example through blame or personal responsibility, opening them instead to the what else that also beckons. All events are more complex than they seem, and modes of encounter that play, tigeresquely, with that complexity can and do change their course.
Beyond Myth-Making
Fabulation is vulnerable to capture. Its other, myth-making, is always at its heels, seducing us with the promise of intelligibility. How to keep the wildness of fabulation active in the retelling and reorienting of our everyday practices? “This is how it is,” we say, or at least how it’s been, its having-been constitutive of what will be capable of coming to be. And we’re not altogether wrong. It is like this. Today, or yesterday. But it was also so much more, in a flash. Already, another shape has begun to take form, a shape relationally attuned to the inheritance of the “it is.” What myth-making tendencies will have missed in the description of the shape will have been the relational field, the inheritance not of form but of formative force. “[W]hether explicitly or not, narration always refers to a system of judgement: even when acquittal takes place due to the benefit of the doubt, or when the guilty is so only because of fate. Falsifying narration, by contrast, frees itself from this system; it shatters the system of judgement because the power of the false (not error or doubt) affects the investigator and the witness as much as the person presumed guilty” (Deleuze 1989: 133). The kind of telling which does justice to the event in its ongoing capacity for metamorphosis can only emerge from the event itself and be told in the squeaks of the event’s own perpetually falsifying forms of articulation.
Falsifying narration in the name of the event’s capacity for metamorphosis is uncomfortable because it refuses to settle the event. Everything is affected. “The point is that the elements themselves are constantly changing with the relations of time into which they enter, and the terms with their connections. Narration is constantly being completely modified, in each of its episodes, not according to subjective variations, but as a consequence of disconnected places and dechronologized moments” (Deleuze 1989: 133). With the power of the false, the event has multiplied, its schisms made palpable: “contrary to the form of the true which is unifying ... the power of the false cannot be separated
from an irreducible multiplicity” (133).
This multiplicity is serial. “The power of the false exists only from the perspective
of a series of powers, always referring to each other and passing into one another” (Deleuze 1989: 133). The event has schismed and with it the certainty of what it might have been or what it might become. The event has been immediated, an immediation that is already part of a series, a series that is always more than the sum of us, always more- than human. The event is never just the one it has become in its actualization: it is also the many of fabulation’s polyvalent accounting.
The cut in the event, its schism, never lends itself to an overview. Schizoanalysis never happens once and for all. Its felt effects are rhizomatic, undermining the sense that there might be a knowability that keeps everything in perspective. Fabulation as a technique of immediation makes felt the durational force of the cut, makes resonate an experiential time that doesn’t know how to be counted. For while the cut is absolutely punctual, immediate, it cleaves the event in ways that recalibrate it, immediating. This couples two kinds of time: the time of the now and the time of the will have been. Time becomes operative, experiential.
Emergency
But what of the urgency, even the sense of emergency, at the heart of the now of immediation? Activists know this problem well. Everything matters, all the time, the body poised to leap. Enthusiasm, excitement, and then, too often, chaos, or entropy, or inertia. Absolute movement with the event caught in the vortex of everything it could become. Madness. Burnout.
This state of extreme overactivation is familiar to all who experiment with
emergent collectivity. The event takes us, its absolute movement swirling us within an unbounded spacetime that is often temporally and spatially at odds with the rhythms of the everyday. No points of reliance are available. Perspective is long gone. The body becomes warrior, tense with anticipation, thick with the trauma of what have now become life and death stakes. Adrenal overexertion, there is no calm here where the event has become us.
Too often, in the face of this schism of focused momentum and deep exhaustion, an uneasy shift happens toward the personal. “I can't do it anymore,” we hear ourselves say, as though this were first and foremost about us. The shaping of emergent collectivity has been reduced to our cells, to our skin envelopes and our limits. The event, we believe, needs us to continue. A new kind of “personal is political” emerges in this intense constellation where the edges where politics and life and art and philosophy co-compose are completely overridden by a sense of breathless engagement: the state of emergency overcomes us.
The stakes are enormous, and many of us feel them today. Avoca’s fabulation did not have these stakes, but the concurrent event of Michael Brown’s death did, and we felt it. Urgency was not misplaced. The weight of the world we compose with, a world of austerity and neoliberalism and racism and exclusion which every day undervalues what collective living can be, is a heavy burden to live with. Many of us wake daily with an almost hopeless feeling of urgency, the body poised in a state of acute tension. As months (and centuries) of attacks against African-Americans in the United States continue, as more gun violence erupts and wars continue to be fought, as austerity measures threaten to completely undermine our everyday existences and climate change threatens to foreclose the future, as we continue to watch the horrifying accounts of refugees streaming through Europe and beyond looking for a safe landing, where are the fissures for collective experimentation even thinkable?
This is a question the SenseLab struggles with. What kind of action is called for from those who are further removed from war and violence? How might we who are not necessarily on the front lines contribute to movements in ways that modulate the one-time of the now that often does us in long before the core political issues we are fighting against have significantly changed?
A politics of fabulation seems important in this context. Political events are often lived in the time span of media events—acutely here and then completely gone. The political is lived as staccato rather than as durational, one violent act overshadowing the next. But as all activists will attest, the work continues even when the attention wanes, and it is often in the waning that the exhaustion settles in, despondency taking over as the status quo returns.
How the collective makes a difference is often not part of the telling. What is told is told in the sound bites of new myth-making strategies, the complexity of fabulation too unwieldy for the facebook like. But the fabulations are there—the work is to draw them out. What kinds of techniques might be invented to assist us in orienting urgency away from a constant state of emergency? How might we bend our practices toward the desynchronous time of fabulation, even while we are living the emergency? What might emergent collectivity be capable of in this context? What kind of acts are necessary?
The primacy of action has been rightly criticized as connected to capital, as tending to operate in tandem with the accelerated time of capital's constant need to forecast the newest new.11 What other modes of activity are alive in the act? What kind of telling accompanies what Brian Massumi calls bare activity, activity seen not simply in terms of its spatial extension but in its intensive magnitude?12 And what about those lines—the front line, the sidelines? Is there a way to create rallies across different qualities of line? Can we make the line a field?
A durational field is always immediating. All acts immediate. The question of how to compose with the capacitation of the field in act is the one the SenseLab most contends with. How to participate adequately to the event? How to know where our bodies need to be counted (which lines actually need us to be standing there, numbered amongst those also marking the event)? How to know when subtraction is most important, where our presence must be backgrounded in lieu of other qualities of action? How to live the modulation of the act such that we don’t simply fall prey to capital's mandate that we do more, be more, bending to capital’s infinite need for surplus and accumulation? How to keep the enthusiasm of the body transversal, beyond capture? How to compose with altereconomies in ways that do their work through creative fissures of capital’s leakages without turning these acts into moral imperatives? How to create time for emergent collectivity in a world that asks so much of our time, of this time?
To create interstitial emergent collectivities is a serial act that composes both with the force of the schism that opens the now of experience in the making, and crafts the dissonant not-yet that takes time to create its own appetite for change. Schizoanalytic techniques are necessary, and they have to be invented each time anew, cutting across lines where they form, troubling them, redirecting them, strengthening them. What kinds of collective practices can we invent that complicate participation across this seriality?
The SenseLab seeks to immediate there where the lines are composed, where they cross, where they perish. Free radicals are key: activated in the telling, in the relation, motivated by the power of the false, the free radical exposes the variability in experience, replacing and superseding “the form of the true,” by making apparent “the simultaneity of incompossible presents,” “the coexistence of not-necessarily true pasts” (Deleuze 1989: 131).
To create openings for free radicality, techniques will always need to be invented that are capable of creating the conditions, in the event, for the activation of its fabulatory tendencies. This will mean paying close attention to how immediation functions in the event, attending to the dissonances that allow event-time, the durational quality of the event, to be felt. By making palpable the durational field that catches futurity in the making, the anarchic share of the event’s persistence will become operational.
Emergency lives in the urgency of now, this time, this only time. No practice can function always in the state of emergency. The work of the free radical is to supplement the necessary pull of emergency, to compose with the complex time differential of the act. Emergency is with us, and it is here to stay. How to compose with the doubling of time this calls forth—the time of the now and the time of sustained action? How to make sustainable, in a more-than human register, the acute sense that all is in the balance? How to not become rigidified by the tension that comes with the sense that there can never be enough action to turn the tides?
All scales of action are present in the flash of tigritude. How can the act of activism produce an enthusiasm of the body that carries, in a flash, all these scales, all these durations? The flash is transversal: it is not that the child becomes a tiger, or that the child imitates a tiger. It is that the child immediatingly connects to the dynamism of the tiger’s enthusiasm of the body, that the child activates the form of life of tigritude.
A politics of fabulation does nothing less. It composes at all scales of existence, activating the dynamism of experience in the making. Cutting across more normative tellings, it transversalizes experience. It invents it. And in so doing, it allows the edges of
the political to resonate differently, collectively, durationally.
The force of immediation in a politics of fabulation does this: it takes us out of the
centre. It opens the present to its schisms. And it teaches us not only that “I” is another, but also that the event is not me (Deleuze 1989: 153).
The SenseLab has appetite. It creates itself around practices that tune toward an affinity that seeks to compose across art, politics and philosophy. It wants to be nomadic. It wants to activate the contours of a life in the making, a mode of existence that can only know itself through the falsifications it will become allied to and will then leave behind. This coming and going takes continual work, especially the going. We have to learn, again and again, how to subtract ourselves, how to do this work without becoming attached to it, subsumed by it, dependent on it for personal gain. How a practice does its work, how a practice creates the conditions for an emergent collectivity, has to be reinvented each time anew. It can never be solely about how we did it before. And it can never really be about us. This does not mean that what has come before has no importance. It means that we work from a beginning always rich with inheritance that remains open to deviation.
Experimenting immediation is shape-shifting: tigeresque. Free radical intercession requires an enthusiasm of the body. We are not the centre of experience, tigritude is, vitality affects are. It is here that we must begin, shifting from our belief that we are the center of experience, composing instead with other scales and tempos, with the minor gestures of geological time, affective time, event-time.
To know time differently is to feel how the more-than of existence composes us, composes with us. The political is never within reach. To have reached it is to have solidified it into a myth. To be politically engaged, to open up fields of emergent collectivity is not to have willed them into existence, but to have been moved by them, to have been composed by them. Our task: to become schizoanalytic experimentors at the
edges of experience where the intercession of the free radical unbinds the linear force of narration, freeing the bonds of a time prescribed. Our task: to become sensitive to a composing-with that will never tell the true story of how emergent collectivity briefly came to expression. Our task: to move at the rhythm of free radicals who affirm the cut of immediation. Our task: to destroy, with all the force of the free radical, that which too easily conforms to our image, to our need to recognize ourselves in the work we do.
